
 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 NEW YORK — Seven films in, the DC Extended Universe is finally flying with some wind behind its back. The well-reviewed, more modestly budgeted "Shazam!" debuted with $53.5 million over the weekend.


 "Shazam!" has collected an estimated $56.8 million in total, including about $3 million from early advance screenings. Made for about $100 million, "Shazam!" follows recent DC successes such as "Aquaman" and "Wonder Woman."


 Paramount Pictures' "Pet Sematary" remake opened in second with $25 million. It's a decent start for the Stephen King adaptation, though far from the haul that the last big-screen adaptation of King's conjured up. "It" opened with $123.4 million in 2017.


 Last week's top film, "Dumbo," slid to third with $18.2 million.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Devin Fuller
 

 DC Comics’s latest superhero spectacle,
 
  “Shazam!
 
 ,” which opens this weekend, follows the comedic adventures of Billy Batson (Asher Angel), a teenage boy who transforms into an adult superhero called Shazam (Zachary Levi). A buff, lightning-bolt-emblazoned man-boy, Shazam isn’t as well-known now as he used to be. But he is one of the most important heroes in comic history.


 Shazam first appeared in Whiz Comics No. 2 in 1939, quickly becoming one of the most popular comic book characters of the 1940s. In his prime, he regularly outsold Superman and Batman. And he was the first comic book superhero to appear on film.


 Back then, however, he went by the name Captain Marvel, which is a bit confusing, particularly given the debut of Marvel’s “
 
  Captain Marvel
 
 ” last month. That may also help explain why Shazam feels a bit unfamiliar today.


 [
 
  
   Our critic called “Shazam!” a “nice change of pace for a big-screen mega-comic, if not a revolutionary shift”
  
 
 ]

 Early box office predictions indicate that may be changing. Still, who is this guy? And what’s with the Captain Marvel thing? Here’s a primer on Shazam’s history.


 In 1939, Fawcett Comics was looking to capitalize on the superhero boom created by characters like Superman. The writer Bill Parker came up with the idea of a team of superheroes, each of whom possessed the power of a different mythological figure. The idea was ultimately revised to just one character with all of those powers, and thus was born Shazam.


 Parker originally called him Captain Thunder, but that name was already trademarked, so he switched to Captain Marvel. (A competitor, Timely Comics, did not rebrand as Marvel Comics until 1961.) The artist C.C. Beck was the illustrator, and he continued to draw Captain Marvel throughout the 1940s.


 [
 
  
   Read the history of Marvel’s Captain Marvel here
  
 
 ]


 In his first appearance, Billy is an orphaned paperboy who meets a wizard in a mysterious subway station. After learning about Billy’s sad life, the wizard declares that he is too old to keep fighting crime and asks Billy to take his place. He endows Billy with the power to turn into Captain Marvel any time he says the word “Shazam,” which is an acronym for the “immortal elders” who give him his powers: Solomon, Hercules, Atlas, Zeus, Achilles and Mercury.

 The fact that Captain Marvel was secretly a kid made him a favorite among young readers. “Whiz Comics” No. 2 sold 500,000 copies, and the character’s own series, “Captain Marvel Adventures,” first came out in 1941, the same year he made his big screen debut.


 That film debut, in March 1941, was the 12-part live-action Republic Pictures serial “Adventures of Captain Marvel.” It is considered the first comic book superhero film, and it beat the first animated Superman cartoons to the big screen by six months.


 In that version, Billy is a young explorer on an expedition to Siam, where he encounters the wizard. As Captain Marvel, he is tasked with protecting the world from the Golden Scorpion, an ancient and dangerous device sought by scientists and criminals. “Adventures of Captain Marvel” feels somewhat primitive and surprisingly violent by today’s superhero standards (Captain Marvel kills a lot of people), but it’s worth viewing to see how far the genre has come.

 In 1951, National Comics Publications successfully argued that Captain Marvel was a copyright infringement on Superman because of their similar powers, costumes and artwork, signaling an end to a legal battle that began a decade earlier. (National had even tried to block the release of “Adventures of Captain Marvel.”) Fawcett paid National $400,000 in damages and was forced to cancel all of its superhero publications. No new Captain Marvel comics were produced for the next 22 years.

 In 1972, DC Comics acquired the rights to Fawcett’s characters and began producing new Captain Marvel stories the next year. Marvel Comics, however, had meanwhile trademarked the name,
 
  creating its own Captain Marvel in 1967
 
 . DC was permitted to call its superhero Captain Marvel, but it was not allowed to use the name on any marketing or titles featuring the character. DC decided to sell its Captain Marvel books under the title “Shazam!”


 A children’s television series based on DC’s Captain Marvel, titled “Shazam!,” debuted on CBS in 1974. In the series, Billy (Michael Gray) travels around the country in a motor home with an adult companion (Les Tremayne) solving problems each week by turning into Captain Marvel (played by Jackson Bostwick and later John Davey). The show had a very low budget, so Captain Marvel appeared only very briefly in each episode.


 The show lasted three seasons. A short-lived animated series featuring Captain Marvel, called “The Kid Super Power Hour With Shazam!” followed in 1981, and lasted 12 episodes, but that was his last starring role for a while.


 Through the 1980s and ’90s, DC further integrated Captain Marvel into its comic universe, giving the character appearances in “Justice League,” “Kingdom Come” and his own continuing series, “The Power of Shazam!,” which lasted from 1995 to 1999. He returned to television in a 2005 episode of “Justice League Unlimited.” Playing on the fraught history between Captain Marvel and Superman, the character is introduced as a big fan of Superman, but the two heroes eventually come to blows.


 The episode includes a fun Easter egg for comic book fans, as Captain Marvel’s hometown is named Fawcett City after his original publisher. Captain Marvel also makes several appearances in the Cartoon Network series “Batman: The Brave and the Bold” and in several of DC’s direct-to-video animated films.


 In 2011, DC Comics relaunched all its comics with the New 52 initiative. New 52 was an attempt to simplify decades of complicated comic book history, and Captain Marvel received an updated origin story by the writer Geoff Johns, along with an official name change to Shazam.


 The new “Shazam!” film incorporates multiple elements of the back story introduced by Johns. In 2018, DC debuted a new “Shazam!” comic book, the character’s first continuing series in nearly 20 years. Shazam may never again overtake Superman in popularity, but the box office and critical success of the new film should ensure that a whole new generation will know his name.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Brooks Barnes
  
 

 LOS ANGELES — Warner Bros. has finally earned back the benefit of the doubt when it comes to its all-important superhero movies: “Shazam!” became the studio’s third nonsequel comic-book hit in a row over the weekend, arriving to
 
  applause from critics
 
 and stout ticket sales of nearly $156 million worldwide.


 “We really want these movies to stand on their own, with filmmakers best suited to the characters,” Toby Emmerich, chairman of the Warner Bros. Pictures Group, said by phone on Sunday morning. “We’re all feeling deservedly really good.”


 “Shazam!” was the No. 1 movie in North America, collecting $53.5 million over the weekend, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data.
 
  Paid previews
 
 in partnership with Fandango in late March, designed to prompt positive chatter online, added $3.33 million. “Shazam!” also had a solid start in countries like Mexico and Russia.


 
  [Read
 
 
  
   our critic’s take on “Shazam!”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 Second place at the domestic box office went to a remake of “Pet Sematary” (Paramount), based on the novel by Stephen King. It took in an estimated $25 million. Disney’s big-budget “Dumbo” trundled along in third place, selling $18.2 million in tickets, for a sad two-week total of $76.3 million.

 “Shazam!” was made by New Line, a division of Warner that focuses on lower-cost films that often serve as counterprogramming. Made for about $100 million — about 40 percent less than most superhero movies — “Shazam!” tells the story of a teenage boy (played by Asher Angel, known for Disney Channel’s “
 
  Andi Mack
 
 ”) who can turn himself into a hero with an adult body (Zachary Levi) and unique powers.

 “New Line always thought that ‘Big’ as a superhero movie was a great idea, a way to make the genre feel fresh and different,” Emmerich said.


 Warner has spent the better part of a decade trying to get its act together with movies based on characters from its DC Comics division — an imperative given the runaway success of rival Marvel Studios and the film industry’s increasing need for spectacles that audiences see as worth a trip to theaters. Part of the problem was that Warner stuck for too long with a dark vision for its superhero universe, set by the filmmaker Zack Snyder, that was
 
  clearly not working
 
 . That led to creative and financial messes like “Suicide Squad” and “Justice League.”


 But the studio, having largely jettisoned Snyder’s plans and shaken up its executive ranks, including
 
  promoting Emmerich
 
 , has started to deliver superhero home runs on a consistent basis: “Wonder Woman” from Patty Jenkins, “Aquaman” from James Wan, and seemingly “Shazam!,” which was directed by a relative newcomer, David F. Sandberg.

 Where the PG-13 “Shazam!” will end up at the box office remains a bit of a question mark given the impending arrival of “Avengers: Endgame.” Ticket buyers gave “Shazam!” an A grade in CinemaScore exit polls, an indication of staying power.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 Two superheroes, both alike in not taking themselves too seriously, had very different experiences at the box office this weekend.


 Warner Bros.’s “Shazam!” made $25.1 million domestically, a solid sum that kept it in first place after a strong debut last weekend.


 That PG-13 film centers on a teenager (Asher Angel) who can transform into a hero with an adult body (Zachary Levi) by speaking the word “shazam.” Based on a DC Comics character, "Shazam!” has a jaunty and lighthearted tone, and its continued box-office success provides further evidence of the
 
  success of Warner Bros.’s shift
 
 away from the dark mood of
 
  “Suicide Squad”
 
 and
 
  “Justice League.”
 


 “Shazam!” picked up an additional $35.9 million outside of North America this weekend, according to Warner Bros., which brings the film’s worldwide gross to $258.8 million. That’s more than double the roughly $100 million the movie cost to make.

 But a mix of wisecracks and superpowers is no guarantee of success, as evidenced by another new movie: Lionsgate’s “Hellboy,” financed by Millennium Media.


 That film, a bloody, R-rated affair with a cherry-red, semi-demonic superhero (David Harbour) at its helm, landed in third place with a dreary $12 million in North American theaters this weekend, well below analysts’ expectations. A reboot of the
 
  Guillermo del Toro movies
 
 (themselves based on comic books by Mike Mignola), the new “Hellboy” was directed by Neil Marshall, with Harbour taking over the title role from Ron Perlman. It had a production budget of $50 million, according to Box Office Mojo.


 
  [
 
 
  
   Read the New York Times review
  
 
 
  of “Hellboy.”]
 


 Though it keeps the unserious tone that helped del Toro’s movies develop a cult following and stand out from other superhero stories, the new “Hellboy” arrived to poor reviews from critics — it currently holds a
 
  15 percent fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes
 
 .


 More successful was Universal’s
 
  “Little,”
 
 which landed in second place with $15.5 million, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data. It had a reported production budget of around $20 million.


 “Little,” a comedy directed by Tina Gordon, is like “Shazam!” in reverse: The story is about an adult C.E.O. (Regina Hall) who gets transformed into her 13-year-old self (Marsai Martin).

 Paramount’s
 
  “Pet Sematary,”
 
 based on the novel by Stephen King, came in fourth place with $10 million domestically.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Endangered Spaces


 Loved by Wall Streeters and scruffy comic book junkies alike, Chameleon Comics was a clubhouse in the Financial District.

 3 Maiden Lane, Manhattan


 
  Endangered Spaces
 
 is celebrating beloved neighborhood institutions that are fighting to stay open in an era of relentless change. Tell us a space we should feature, and send us your memories, at
 
  endangeredspaces@nytimes.com
 
 .


 By
 
 
  
   Corey Kilgannon
  
 

 Jason Winn burst into Chameleon Comics &amp; Cards looking like Superman stumbling upon kryptonite.


 “What is going on?” Mr. Winn said to the regulars in the shop who had already read the handwritten sign outside.


 Their glum faces told the story: Chameleon was shutting its doors after nearly 30 years in Manhattan’s Financial District.


 “This shop was like home to me,” said Mr. Winn, a paralegal, who works nearby and had grown used to his steady fix of Chameleon’s eclectic selection of comic books, graphic novels, baseball cards and action figures. “These kind of comic shops are shutting down left and right.”


 Beyond the shop’s merchandise, the scene was what really attracted a steady cadre of regulars, from scruffy comic junkies in search of bargains to well-dressed Wall Streeters looking to drop serious money on the store’s impressive selection of collectible baseball cards.

 They all shared a common despondency during the shop’s last week before it closed on March 31. And they came together one last time to lament the demise of their favorite gathering spot, a place where you could land bargains while discussing the latest releases with like-minded collectors.


 
  “At this shop, they always had a personal relationship with the customers. They always worked with me and gave me a deal. You can’t get that kind of service at a corporate store.”
 


 
  —
 
 
  Jason Winn
 
 
  , 38
 

 The store’s owner, Steve Wu, 50, said business had been declining for years and that he could no longer afford to stay open now that his lease was ending and his landlord was raising the rent significantly.


 Mr. Wu would not disclose the exact amount, but said the increase would put his rent well over $10,000 per month for the 500-square-foot shop on Maiden Lane just east of Broadway.


 Business, he said, never quite rebounded after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack occurred several blocks away. Also, he added, younger people do not seem to collect comics like older generations did.


 The shop is one of many small service-style businesses that caters to the work force that fills the area on weekdays. Inside, it was hardly a charming space — sparsely decorated with worn beige tiles underfoot and large fluorescent lights overhead, along with a large inflatable Spiderman doll hanging from the ceiling.


 But the drab décor only seemed to make the colorful comic books and graphic novels pop out even more from their display cases, which had small signs issuing edicts such as “No Reading” and “This Is Not a Library.”

 In the store’s last days, shoppers sought to take advantage of the store’s everything-must-go sale.


 A stack of Superboy comics from the late 1960s were being sold for $10 apiece. In the baseball card cases, a
 
  Carl Yastrzemski
 
 rookie card from 1960 cost $125, but one of him from 1972 went for $3.


 “These kind of stores are what make New York great,” said one customer, Wayne Manos, 66, a Marvel and DC Comics lover and a Topps baseball card aficionado who began frequenting the store while working at the now defunct American Stock Exchange.


 “We became part of the community — a lot of people came here just to hang out and get away from work,” said Mr. Wu, as he hugged some of his customers. “But with a store like this, the profit margin is very low. It’s not like a Chanel store where you can make a few sales a day.”


 He tried looking for other retail space in downtown Manhattan, he said, “but the rents are just too crazy.”

 
  NEW YORK CITY
 
 is known around the world for the big stuff — iconic guidebook attractions like the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty. But New Yorkers know that the city’s essence lies in the smaller, neighborhood places that make up its unique fabric.
 
 
 If not well known, they are certainly well loved: the local dive bar or diner; the quirky Laundromat; the tiny shoe repair shop. And while the city is always in transition, the change these days seems relentless. Beloved spots are succumbing to high rents and are often replaced by chain businesses.
 
 
 Here then is a celebration of places that are closing (or just hanging on).

 “I wanted it to be a laboratory.”


 “These kind of comic shops are shutting down left and right.”


 “It’s been a comfort station for the neighborhood.”


 “Too much of it is already destroyed.’’


 “This is the Cheers of Park Slope.”


 “It’s been a true community effort.”


 Produced by Meghan Louttit, Eden Weingart, Gabriel Gianordoli and Diego Ribadeneira

 Illustrations by Julia Wertz

 Corey Kilgannon is a Metro reporter covering news and human interest stories. His writes the
 
  Character Study
 
 column in the Sunday Metropolitan section. He was also part of the team that won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News.
 
  
   
    @
   
   coreykilgannon
  
  
   •
  
  
   Facebook
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 When new comic books arrive in stores on April 17, retailers who ordered the latest issue of a Buffy comic will get a bonus: free copies of Issue No. 0 of Angel, a new series.


 “We wanted to do something special with the launch of Angel,” Arune Singh, the vice president of marketing for
 
  Boom! Studios
 
 , the publisher, said in an interview. The notion, he noted, became, “How do we do a Beyoncé album drop, but for comic book stores?”


 Keeping Angel under wraps was no easy feat. Retailers and fans hear about new comics months in advance and sometimes even earlier. Boom! worked with
 
  Diamond Comic Distributors
 
 , the hub for retailers, on the top-secret project — playfully code-named Tooth Fairy, after the film starring Dwayne Johnson, a.k.a. the Rock, as a hockey player. (Angel is a hockey fan.)


 Angel, a vampire with remorse, will expand the universe of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, which was
 
  rebooted
 
 in January. Like the new Buffy series, Angel will be set in contemporary times, not in 1999 when the character’s
 
  television series
 
 — a spinoff of the 1997 “
 
  Buffy” TV show
 
 — first aired.

 The Angel series is written by
 
  Bryan Edward Hill
 
 , drawn by
 
  Gleb Melnikov
 
 , colored by
 
  Gabriel Cassata
 
 and lettered by
 
  Ed Dukeshire
 
 . The first three pages of the issue present a different perspective on the final moments of Buffy No. 4, which arrives in stores the same day. In the Buffy comic, one of the characters is in a dire predicament, which is silently observed by Angel. In his comic, Angel sees the struggle, but readers are clued into his brooding on past sins and a cycle of violence. “I might be powerless to break it,” he thinks, “but who would I be if I didn’t try?”

 
  [Read about the new
 
 
  
   Buffy the Vampire Slayer comic that arrived in January
  
 
 
  .]
 


 In 2018, Boom! Studios announced it had acquired the rights to publish comics based on some of the creations of
 
  Joss Whedon
 
 , including the “Buffy” TV show as well as the 2002 “
 
  Firefly
 
 ” series. But there was no mention of Angel, Buffy’s star-crossed love interest.


 The Buffy series has seen growing popularity — sales to stores have steadily increased from 25,000 copies for issue No. 2, in February, to 32,000 copies for issue No. 4 — and the company wanted to encourage more readers to discover her adventures by visiting a store.


 
  [Read about a
 
 
  
   publisher, TKO Studios, with a new binge-release model
  
 
 
  .]
 


 Last week, Bleeding Cool, a website devoted to pop culture, reported on the existence of Tooth Fairy No. 0 and
 
  began speculating
 
 about what the comic could be.

 This isn’t the first surprise comic. Robert Kirkman, the creator of The Walking Dead comic that spawned the
 
  television franchise
 
 , pulled off some magic last July. He
 
  sent retailers
 
 copies of his series
 
  Die!Die!Die!
 
 , which he wrote with Scott M. Gimple. It was drawn by
 
  Chris Burnham
 
 and colored by
 
  Nathan Fairbairn
 
 .


 “Hopefully the excitement of a surprise launch like this will bring people into your stores,” Kirkman wrote in a letter to the shops, “and we can all celebrate another successful series launch together.”


 Boom! is giving retailers around the country some of the 29,000 copies of Angel No. 0, which has a cover price of $3.99, based on the number of copies of Buffy No. 3 (from March) that they ordered. Additionally, Angel No. 0 will not be available for download until May 1, making the need to visit a comic store more immediate.


 “We want these comic shop retailers, who are the lifeblood of this industry, to know we are committed to them,” Singh said.







 Advertisement

 
  By
  
   COREY KILGANNON
  
  ,
 
 
  
   KAREN ZRAICK
  
  ,
 
 
  
   MEGHAN LOUTTIT
  
  and
 
 
  
   EDEN WEINGART
  
 
 
  APRIL 14, 2019
 


 
  
   NEW YORK CITY
  
  is known around the world for the big stuff — iconic guidebook attractions like the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty. But New Yorkers know that the city’s essence lies in the smaller, neighborhood places that make up its unique fabric.
  
  
  If not well known, they are certainly well loved: the local dive bar or diner; the quirky Laundromat; the tiny shoe repair shop. And while the city is always in transition, the change these days seems relentless. Beloved spots are succumbing to high rents and are often replaced by chain businesses.
  
  
  Here then is a celebration of places that are closing (or just hanging on).
 


 We’ll continue to chronicle New York’s endangered spaces throughout the year. Share your suggestions and memories with us at
 
  endangeredspaces@nytimes.com
 
 . Your story may be featured in future installments.


 40-19 Gleane Street, Queens


 Opened in 2002


 3 Maiden Lane, Manhattan


 Opened in 1989


 108 Greenwich Avenue, Manhattan


 Opened in 1991


 135-35 Northern Boulevard, Queens


 Opened in 1928


 312 Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn


 Opened in 1983


 350 Moffat Street, Brooklyn


 Opened in 2015


 Produced by Meghan Louttit, Eden Weingart, Gabriel Gianordoli and Diego Ribadeneira

 Advertisement


 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  On Comedy
 


 By
 
 
  
   Jason Zinoman
  
 

 In November 2017, the stand-up comic Nacho Redondo told a joke at a university about the Paralympics that upset some audience members and drew controversy online, which he promptly used to promote his next shows. It may sound like a common, even mundane story.


 But in Venezuela, where Redondo, 32, developed a following for his brash, dark humor, the price for a joke that offends can be much higher than online outrage or a boycott. After politicians harshly criticized him on state-run television, Redondo received death threats online, and the government sued him. He fled the country on the day the lawsuit was filed, and hasn’t returned. “I was terrified and then paranoid and scared for my life,” Redondo said by Skype from Mexico City, where he now lives, adding that he didn’t want to leave his aging mother and other family members but felt he had no choice. “You get jailed there because of tweets.”


 American comics often complain about the chilling effect of political correctness and social media mobs. Or about the damage done when the Trump administration targets
 
  Kathy Griffin
 
 or “Saturday Night Live.” But in an era of rising authoritarianism around the globe, the threat to comedians in countries without a tradition of freedom of speech can be much more severe.


 In the fascinating series “Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy,” which debuted in February, Charles, the director of “Borat,” visited comics in some of the most repressive countries in the world, including Somalia and Iraq. “Comedians have been murdered in broad daylight in both countries,” Charles said by phone. Then he added, referring to Ahmed Albasheer: “The Jon Stewart of Iraq, who I profile in the show, can’t do his show anymore because he would be killed.” A Saudi Arabian comic has been jailed since he talked to Charles.

 With platforms like Netflix increasing their presence around the world, the policies of regimes that crack down on comedy are not as remote as they once were. When Hasan Minhaj criticized the Saudi regime on his show “Patriot Act,” that government asked Netflix to take the episode down in that country. The streaming service agreed, saying it needed to
 
  “comply with local law.”
 

 In Venezuela, a country in economic and political turmoil, laboring under national blackouts and punishing economic sanctions, President Nicolás Maduro has aggressively targeted comedy for years. Using the same broadly defined law that it employed to sue Redondo, the
 
  government arrested two firefighters
 
 for posting video online poking fun at Maduro.


 Mayda Hocevar, the director of the human rights observatory of the
 
  University of the Andes
 
 , said many comics have been forced out of the country because the government, as she put it in an email, “has been criminalizing satire.”

 The most significant comic to leave Venezuela might be Luis Chataing, who was the popular host (4.7 million Twitter followers) of a “Daily Show”-like program. The show was taken off the air in 2014, the day after he made fun of the government. Chataing said the government pressured the TV station by threatening other companies it owns. Maduro
 
  denied playing any role
 
 , but when Chataing, who now lives in Miami and broadcasts
 
  online,
 
 took his show on a live tour, he helped radicalize a large segment of the fairly young standup scene.

 “Before 2014, comedians in Venezuela steered clear of political content because they didn’t want to alienate their fan base,” said Emiliana Duarte, a writer and editor for the website
 
  Caracas Chronicles
 
 . “But when Maduro clamped down on dissent, that’s when comedy became more confrontational.”


 Redondo said comedy in Venezuela has become a rebellion. “The radio station I worked at, we had a meeting where they said you can’t use Maduro’s name. So comedians did the opposite onstage,” he said. “That was the only place no one can regulate you.”


 Redondo, who grew up a fan of the HBO specials of Chris Rock and Katt Williams, has used the lawsuit against him to promote a new show that sold out in Miami last year, and is planning a tour of the United States this year where he will refer to the controversy over his Paralympics joke. The title of his show, translated from Spanish, is “Disabled.”


 He is an unlikely champion for comedy as a tool of dissent; his material normally steers clear of politics and makes light of dark subjects like cancer. Redondo said he became a target when he started commenting on protests and the government on the radio and online. To him, the lawsuit was merely a pretext. “They don’t care about disabled people,” he said, adding in an email: “The ‘disabled joke’ facade was the perfect way to hide the fact that I was targeted just for being influential with young people.”


 Duarte, the Caracas Chronicles writer and editor, said that far from being the standard-bearer for freedom of speech, Redondo was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. “His joke happened right in a tense, inflammatory moment when over 130 people were killed in protests,” she said. “He was made an example of.” The message was, she said, “Look what were doing to him. Stay quiet or it might happen to you, too.”

 In fact, Redondo thought the controversy over the joke — a long bit in which he imagines a 100-meter race between people with different disabilities including a man with one leg, a man with no limbs and a communist — might blow over. But then he was attacked on the television show of
 
  Diosdado Cabello,
 
 the politician widely viewed as the second-most powerful person in Venezuela.


 “If Cabello calls you on the show,” Redondo said, “it’s a sign: Go after him. If he pronounces your name, you have to leave, basically.”

 Charles said he began his series with the question of whether comedy could survive governments like that in Venezuela. He came away convinced of the ultimate resilience of the art form. “Laughter is as important as breathing, eating and sleeping,” he said. “Comedy will survive if humanity does.”


 There’s no better example than a weekly bar show in Caracas that had been canceled twice because of the blackouts that have crippled the country. The loss of electricity did not stop comedians from putting on a
 
  standup show on March 30,
 
 albeit one without light. It was called “No Nos Vamos a Rendir” — we will not give up.


 Lit up by cellphones from the crowd, the headliner
 
  Gabo Ruíz
 
 went onstage with a microphone, joking that the state’s ideology had defeated him “because I’m talking into a microphone like it’s working,” he said, to a big laugh.


 Speaking by phone last week, Ruíz recalled, “Every joke worked because people wanted to laugh.” He added, “They
 
  needed
 
 to laugh. They’re suffering and just want to get back to normal and so do I. People called it a show of resistance, but I just want to tell jokes.”







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Sara Aridi
 

 
  Jordan Peele’s reboot of the seminal sci-fi series arrives on CBS All Access. And Iggy Pop’s four-part documentary series wraps up on Epix.
 
 


 
  THE TWILIGHT ZONE
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   CBS All Access
  
 
 
  .
 
 March was a big month for Jordan Peele, the Academy Award-winning writer and director behind “Get Out.” It began with the opening of his second feature, the
 
  widely praised horror film “Us.”
 
 And on Monday Peele makes his debut as the narrator and host of
 
  his reimagining
 
 of “The Twilight Zone.” Peele has long idolized that groundbreaking Rod Serling sci-fi anthology series. (The premise of “Us” — about a family besieged by bloodthirsty doppelgängers — was inspired by the episode “Mirror Image.”) The show premieres with two episodes; the first stars Kumail Nanjiani as a fame-seeking comedian, and the second features Adam Scott as a paranoid airline passenger.


 
  ULTRAMAN
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Netflix
  
 
 
  .
 
 The original live-action Japanese show “Ultraman” has led to several sequels and spinoffs in multiple mediums since its debut in the 1960s. At the heart of the franchise is the story of a gigantic superbeing who defends Earth from monsters and alien invasions.
 
  This iteration
 
 , an animated series based on a currently running manga sequel, shifts focus to the original superhero’s son, who, whether he likes it or not, has inherited his father’s powers.

 
  ONE MILLION AMERICAN DREAMS
 
 (2019)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Hulu
  
 
 
  .
 
 Sam Rockwell narrates this documentary about Hart Island, a 101-acre cemetery for about 1 million New Yorkers who never received a proper burial. The Department of Corrections owns the site, which is closed to the public, and pays prison inmates 50 cents an hour to bury the dead. Several families recount how their loved ones wound up there, and their stories are devastating. Glenn Kenny named the movie a Critic’s Pick in his review in The
 
  New York Times
 
 , writing that “it makes a powerful case that the city’s lost dead are due more honor than what Hart Island currently extends.”

 
  PUNK
 
 
  10 p.m. on Epix.
 
 If you yearn for the days when punk, the genre and the lifestyle, hadn’t yet been commodified and commercialized, this
 
  limited documentary series
 
 is right up your alley. Musicians who birthed the punk rock scene — Johnny Rotten of the Sex Pistols, Marky Ramone of the Ramones and Debbie Harry of Blondie, to name a few — look back at the movement with starry-eyed nostalgia. The show comes to a close with a focus on bands that transformed the genre in the 1980s and ’90s, such as Nirvana and Bad Religion, and two all-female groups who burst onto the scene: Bikini Kill and L7.


 
  DC’S LEGENDS OF TOMORROW
 
 
  8 p.m. on the CW.
 
 This DC Comics show returns with another time-traveling mess. When the Legends learn that Mona (Ramona Young) has released a fugitive — though Mona claims her hands are clean — they head to 1961 Mexico City to settle the matter.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 
  Guillermo del Toro’s “Hellboy” airs on Syfy ahead of the series’ imminent reboot. And a zombie spinoff hits Netflix.
 


 
  HELLBOY
 
 (2004)
 
  8:30 p.m. on Syfy.
 
 Hellboy, the cigar-chomping, lobster-colored satanic superhero born of
 
  Mike Mignola
 
 ’s
 
  comics
 
 in the 1990s, was brought to larger audiences by this Guillermo del Toro-directed romp. Wittier and infused with a sweeter disposition than the average big-screen comic book adaptation — though still plenty violent — del Toro’s movie casts Ron Perlman (“Sons of Anarchy”) as the title character, a demon with a devil tail whose origins involve both Grigori Rasputin and an interdimensional portal built by Nazis. (It’s complicated.) He winds up working for a government agency (secret, naturally) that defends against paranormal threats. His fellow agents there include an amphibious man played by Doug Jones (who would later
 
  play another fish-man
 
 in del Toro’s
 
  “The Shape of Water”
 
 ) and a woman with pyrotechnic abilities (Selma Blair). In
 
  his review for The New York Times
 
 , Elvis Mitchell wrote that del Toro “lets loose with an all-American, vaudevillian rambunctiousness that makes the movie daffy, loose and lovable.” It will be interesting to see what the director Neil Marshall brings to the series when
 
  his reboot
 
 , also called “Hellboy,” hits theaters on Friday.


 
  35 SHOTS OF RUM
 
 (2009)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Fandor
  
 
 
  .
 
 The French filmmaker Claire Denis, whose
 
  “High Life”
 
 has a spaceship-dwelling Robert Pattinson currently brooding on the big screens, turned her attention to more terrestrial concerns in this slow-burner. The movie centers on Lionel (Alex Descas), a widower who operates commuter rail cars for a living, and Joséphine (Mati Diop), his university student daughter. The pair live together in a non-central Paris neighborhood, going through quiet routines that get rocked slightly by the romantic attentions of a pair of neighbors, Gabrielle (Nicole Dogue) and Noé (Grégoire Colin). While a slow separation between father and daughter is the film’s clearest focus, A. O. Scott wrote in
 
  his review for The Times
 
 that “its real drama is in quiet moments, in glances and whispers captured by Agnès Godard’s exquisite and expressive cinematography.”

 
  TYREL
 
 (2018)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Hulu
  
 
 
  ; Rent on
 
 
  
   Amazon
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   iTune
  
 
 
  s,
 
 
  
   Vudu
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   YouTube
  
 
 
  .
 
 Jason Mitchell plays the odd man out on a nightmarish retreat to the Catskills in this comedy-drama. What was supposed to be an innocuous birthday party for a friend of a friend turns into something more sinister, thanks in part to the fact that the flock of partyers are young white men whose drunk antics do little to help Tyler (who is black) feel like anything other than an outsider. Michael Cera arrives late in the movie, as a rich kid with a Trump piñata.

 
  BLACK SUMMER
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Netflix
  
 
 
  .
 
 Syfy’s
 
  not-entirely-serious zombie apocalypse series
 
 “Z Nation” gets the spinoff treatment here, in the form of an eight-episode story of a mother (Jaime King) traversing the plains of zombie-land in search of her missing daughter. Assuming that it follows the lead of its mother series, expect tongue-in-decomposed-cheek action.

 Advertisement

 China Daily

 Advertisement

 Share


 Arcade clients claw way to success.
 
 


 Rows of toy claw machines can be seen at shopping malls, cinemas and subway stations in China’s big cities. Young people surround the machines, some playing them in groups and others alone.


 These machines originated from candy dispensers, which appeared in Western countries early in the 20th century and evolved over the decades. They emerged in Japan in the 1980s and were introduced to the Chinese mainland in the 1990s after proving popular in Taiwan.


 It is estimated that there are 30,000 such machines in shopping malls that opened in China in 2017, with a market value of more than 9 million yuan ($1.3 million).


 In Japan, the claw machine market size reached 11 billion yuan in 2016, with about 150,000 machines, according to Li Yingshi, an analyst from the Qianzhan Industry Research Institute in Shenzhen, Guangdong province.


 The items they contain now include sneakers, cakes and snacks. “Japan’s claw machines have become a new form of offline retail,” she said.


 In China, the machines have become popular with young people playing them in arcades with their friends.


 Chen Yantong opened a toy claw machine arcade in downtown Beijing with friends in May last year.


 “When you hang out with friends, you want to do something interesting in addition to dining. As many Chinese are used to buying clothes online, shopping is no longer a priority to kill time. So what should they do with that extra time?” he asked.


 At the store he helped launch, the peak period is 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. “Competition is fierce, and similar shops are emerging,” Chen said.


 Liang Suya, 28, a photographer from Qingyuan city, Guangdong province, about 37 miles from Guangzhou, the provincial capital, said: “Many take it for granted that this is just a simple arcade game, but it requires various skills. I enjoy both the soft toys and the process of grabbing them.


 “It’s a game that requires careful thinking. You make a judgment after careful observation and consideration, including how the dolls are arranged in the machine. I’m really pleased when I figure out an unexpected way to grab a toy.”


 Liang became interested in playing the machines when she accidentally grabbed a toy duck that she liked. It took her a while to become adept, and her record is successfully grabbing eight toys in 10 attempts.


 “While a mobile game provides virtual prizes, playing claw machines offers rewards in a more substantial form. It feels different,” she said.


 Her friend once posted an online video of her grabbing toys, which became a hit, resulting in more than 12 mainstream media outlets interviewing Liang. In January last year, a short video about Liang’s story on the sharing website Pear Video attracted more than 30 million hits and 33,000 comments.


 She attributes the claw machine fad in recent years partially to the popularity of video sites, where players share their successes and skills with others.


 “People living in small cities have fewer entertainment choices than those in metropolises. Novelties such as claw machines are appealing to young people, especially those who are on a date and who want to have fun,” she said.


 Wen Ji’er, 22, a writer who has published several books, plays the machines up to three times a week, each session lasting more than two hours. She gets to learn about the latest trends and gossip from her fellow players.


 “It’s like a cafe. We’re close to each other and can hear others chatting,” she said.


 She once arranged to meet a friend and the friend’s partner in a claw machine arcade. Wen believed the couple could get to know each other better by using the machines－for example, whether the young man would be angry if he could not grab a toy.


 She said playing the machines is a way to relieve her stress. “I don’t like to go to karaoke lounges, pubs or do sports. I like to be by myself and often stay at home in my spare time,” Wen said.


 “I’ve loved soft toys since I was a child. It (playing toy claw machines) has turned out to be an efficient way for me to deal with anxiety and pressure.”


 “You need to be extremely focused to grab a doll by using a claw machine. It’s a mixture of excitement and relaxation, and I like the feeling.”


 Charges for playing the machines in Beijing range from 2 to 5 yuan (30 to 75 cents) for each attempt.


 Li, the analyst, said they are often installed at shopping malls, cinemas and subway stations－places where there are large numbers of people and high demand.


 “Many in the industry in China are individuals operating on a shoestring. Most stuffed toys are rather ordinary, and only a few are authorized by big companies, making them more expensive,” she said.


 Chen, who opened a toy claw machine arcade in Beijing, said consumers like dolls they are familiar with, such as those based on emojis.


 “It’s a good marketing strategy that they can only get the dolls from claw machines. Young people’s consumption power should not be neglected,” he said.


 Wang Biao, founder and CEO of the company 12 Block Culture, is inspired by the Japanese market and wants to see a successful model in China.


 “In Tokyo, some copyright stuffed dolls from popular comics are available only from claw machines. I hope the machines will become a major retail channel for products related to comics and animations in China,” he said.


 Liang, the photographer, takes a large shopping bag to carry home the toys she wins. She plays the machines once a week and pays 1 yuan for every attempt. She records her expenses and the number of toys she grabs in a notebook. In the past two years, she has spent more than 40,000 yuan on grabbing over 10,000 toys.


 “Some people don’t understand why we spend a fortune on claw machines, and some even think it’s squandering money,” she said.


 “In fact, many are willing to spend a lot of money on something they love. Some people may choose to fly to another city to watch a soccer game, or buy a luxury-brand handbag. Playing a claw machine is no different to this.”


 Xu Lin



 The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post’s creation.

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 NEW YORK — A rush of newcomers couldn't shake "Shazam!" from the top spot, as the superhero comedy led the box office for the second straight weekend with $25.1 million in ticket sales, according to studio estimates Sunday.


 Lionsgate's "Hellboy" reboot, the animated Laika Studios release "Missing Link," the college romance "After" and even the long-delayed "Mary Magdalene," originally to be released by the Weinstein Co., all opened in theaters. But the strongest new release of them all was, predictably, the Will Packer-produced one: "Little."


 The body-swap comedy "Little" came in second with $15.5 million for Universal Pictures. Made for just $20 million, "Little" is just the most recent profit-maker for Packer, the "Girls Trip" producer.


 The film, directed by Tina Gordon Chism, stars 14-year-old Marsai Martin as the child an abusive tech executive (Regina Hall) reverts to after a magical spell is cast on her. Martin, the "black-ish" star, also executive produced the film, the youngest ever so credited in Hollywood history.

 "Little" drew a largely female (65 and African American (43%) audience. Jim Orr, Universal Pictures distribution chief, credited the cast, Chism's direction and Packer's overall know-how.


 "He's done it with different kinds of films. 'Breaking In' was a thriller, 'Girls Trip' was an R-rated comedy. 'Little' is kind of an all-ages film, PG-13 rated,'" said Orr, whose studio signed a first-look deal with Packer in 2013. "He's a brand. And he has a great idea of what is going to be successful at the box office."


 It was an out-of-body weekend at the box office. The body-swap comic-book adaptation "Shazam!" — about a teenage boy (Asher Angel) who can turn into an adult-sized superhero (Zachary Levi) with a simple command — held solidly in its second week. Capitalizing on good reviews and word-of-mouth, "Shazam!" is Warner Bros.' New Line's latest DC Comics success. It has grossed $94.9 million through Sunday with a worldwide total of $258.8 million.


 Lionsgate and Millennium's "Hellboy" had been expected by many to vie with "Shazam!" on the weekend. But on the heels of terrible reviews (just 15% "fresh" on Rotten Tomatoes), it flopped with $12 million against a $50 million budget.


 That's significantly less than the debuts of the 2004 original ($23 million opening) and the 2008 sequel ($34.5 million opening). Those films were directed by Guillermo de Toro and starred Ron Perlman; the new "Hellboy" stars David Harbour ("Stranger Things") and is directed by Neil Marshall.

 "Missing Link" also missed. It opened with a disappointing $5.8 million, marking a new low for Laika, the maker of eccentric animated tales such as "Coraline," ''ParaNorman" and "Kubo and the Two Strings." ''Missing Link," distributed by United Artists Releasing, is about the discovery of a creature in the Pacific Northwest. Its voice cast includes Zach Galifianakis, Hugh Jackman and Zoe Saldana.


 Expectations had varied widely for Aviron Pictures' "After," an adaption of Anna Todd's 2014 best-seller. The young-adult drama fared well with $6.2 million in 2,138 theatres.


 And "Mary Magdalene," starring Rooney Mara as Mary and Joaquin Phoenix as Jesus, finally opened, more than three years after production. Harvey Weinstein had once conceived of the film, directed by Garth Davis ("Lion") as his next Oscar contender.


 After the fallout of Weinstein and the bankruptcy of the Weinstein Co., IFC Films acquired the biblical biopic. Critics dismissed it (44% fresh on Rotten Tomatoes) and audiences mostly did, too. It grossed about $62,000 on 62 screens.


 Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Comscore. Where available, the latest international numbers for Friday through Sunday are also included.


 1. "Shazam!" $25.1 million ($35.9 million international).


 2. "Little," $15.5 million ($1.9 million international).


 3. "Hellboy," $12 million ($10.1 million international).


 4. "Pet Sematary," $10 million ($12.6 million international).

 5. "Dumbo," $9.2 million ($22 million international).


 6. "Captain Marvel," $8.6 million ($8 million international).


 7. "Us," $6.9 million ($4.4 million international).


 8. "After," $6.2 million ($11.7 million international).


 9. "Missing Link," $5.8 million ($8.9 million international).


 10. "The Best of Enemies," $2 million.


 ___


 Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and Canada), according to Comscore:


 1. "Shazam!" $35.9 million.


 2. "Dumbo," $22 million.


 3. "P Storm," $19.6 million.


 4. "Pet Sematary," $12.6 million.


 5. "After," $11.7 million.


 6. "Wonder Park," $11.2 million.


 7. "Andhadhun," $10.4 million.


 8. "Hellboy," $10.1 million.


 9. "Captain Marvel," $8 million.


 10. "The Crimes That Bind," $4.4 million.


 ___

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 By
 
 
  
   A.O. Scott
  
 

 Sam is 33 years old, unemployed and counting down the days to eviction from his apartment near the Los Angeles reservoir that gives “Under the Silver Lake” its name. He doesn’t seem too upset about his situation, though he is kind of a mopey guy. His malaise looks like more of a temperamental or existential condition than the response to a crisis. And he doesn’t have it all that bad.


 There are a few guys who are willing to hang out with him, one woman who is willing to have sex with him and a few more who might be, including a neighbor named Sarah with a fluffy little dog. There’s another neighbor who has a lot of birds and walks around topless on her porch, giving Sam an opportunity for a bit of voyeurism and the director, David Robert Mitchell, a chance to nod to
 
  “Rear Window.”
 


 This is one of a great many nods, winks, rib-pokes, throat-clearings and other gestures in the direction of famous and less-famous movies, comic books, video games and songs. At one point, an issue of Spider-Man attaches itself to Sam’s hand by means of an errant wad of bubble gum, which is a funny coincidence — no coincidence at all, in other words — because Sam is played by Andrew Garfield, who used to be Spidey.

 Most of the other allusions in this shaggy-dog tale of wild conspiracism and male petulance are not quite so blatantly meta. Sam and the director are both steeped in classic Hollywood, ’90s indie rock, and various kinds of vintage memorabilia. The mood borrows from Hitchcock (whose grave figures in one scene), and also from Nicholas Ray, David Lynch, and the Southern California noir tradition more generally. Also Thomas Pynchon, Robert Altman and Raymond Chandler. These aren’t esoteric references yielding themselves up to a connoisseur’s prying. They are part of the movie’s surface, and part of its point.

 Sam believes that there are clues everywhere, if only he could figure out what they were clues
 
  to
 
 . He finds hidden messages in comics, song lyrics and antique cereal boxes, and he connects this information with strange happenings around him. Dogs are being killed in the Silver Lake neighborhood. A billionaire dies in a fiery crash. Sarah (Riley Keough) goes missing. Mix-and-match trios of young women — 21st-century variations on a meme of Betty Grable, Lauren Bacall and Marilyn Monroe in
 
  “How to Marry a Millionaire”
 
 — float through the city. Our man gives chase, gets sprayed by a skunk, and eventually discovers …


 Don’t worry. It doesn’t turn out to matter much. The sweet smarts of Mitchell’s first movie, “
 
  The Myth of the American Sleepover”
 
 (treated to a bit of auto-allusion in “Silver Lake”) aren’t much in evidence here. Nor are the slippery psychosexual scares of
 
  “It Follows,”
 
 his breakthrough horror movie from 2015. The ambitions this time are grander, but also vaguer and duller.


 Which isn’t to say that “Under the Silver Lake” is without some diverting qualities. The light, for one thing. Mitchell and his director of photography, Mike Gioulakis, savor the gorgeousness that has seduced so many previous filmmakers. And there are some moments of humor and surprise embedded in the overwrought intricacies and long slack stretches of the plot. But beyond the coy nostalgia and the timid satire is a feeling of bottomless exhaustion.


 At a crypt party in the Hollywood Forever Cemetery, in the company of a balloon girl (identified as Balloon Girl in the credits and played by Grace Van Patten), Sam jumps to his feet to dance to
 
  “What’s the Frequency, Kenneth?”
 
 by R.E.M. It’s a song partly about the latent, mysterious meanings embedded in pop ephemera (“I’d studied your cartoons, radio, music, TV, movies, magazines”), and as such a plausible anthem for Sam’s quest.

 An equally apt, less pretentious choice might have been
 
  ZZ Top’s “Tush,”
 
 since that’s mostly what Sam is looking for and the camera is looking at. One of Sam’s prized possessions is an issue of Playboy from 1970 (it belonged to his dad), and “Under the Silver Lake” dwells in a hedged, half-guilty, self-conscious iteration of the magazine’s hedonist philosophy. There’s plenty of titillation and sexual opportunity, but no real lust, passion or liberatory energy.


 Even Sam’s sense of belatedness feels secondhand. He’s a Gen-X sensibility trapped in a millennial body, with the tastes and obsessions to match. (Mitchell, it’s worth pointing out, is 44 years old). R.E.M. called irony “the shackles of youth,” and he drags it around like a Styrofoam ball and chain. Like other guys his age, Sam feels oppressed by an older generation of guys who lay claim to all the credit, the money, the art and the women, while he is left with a literal and spiritual pile of junk that may not mean what he hoped it would. The movie turns his resentment into a cosmic joke.


 Look, I’ve been there. But I can’t say I sympathize, because there’s no basis for sympathy. “Under the Silver Lake” is less a cinematic folly than a category mistake, taking the sterility of its own imaginative conceits for a metaphysical condition. It isn’t a critique of aesthetic or romantic ennui, but an example of intellectual timidity. As a Los Angeles movie it lacks the rough, naturalistic edge of “La La Land,” and it thinks it’s so much cooler than “La La Land.”

 When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Under the Silver Lake
 
 Rated R. If your date tries to explain that it’s actually more of a commentary on how women are treated in movies, spray him with Mace. Running time: 2 hours 19 minutes.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Laura M. Holson
  
 

 At the “Captain Marvel” premiere in Los Angeles last month, Brie Larson
 
  roamed the red carpet
 
 in a sequined Rodarte slip dress, a galaxy of diamonds cradling her ears. A squadron of F-16 fighter jets flew overhead as fans cheered the movie’s star as she climbed steps to a stage where she was interviewed by Lorraine Cink.


 Ms. Cink, a self-described comic book geek and red carpet host, did not ask Ms. Larson about her gown as others did that day. Nor did she discuss
 
  the movie’s internet trolls
 
 or Ms. Larson’s
 
  call for more diversity
 
 in Hollywood. Instead she focused solely on Captain Marvel and her alter ego Carol Danvers, a United States Air Force pilot, played by Ms. Larson.


 “Carol changed my life and this movie hasn’t even come out yet,” Ms. Larson said, as she held back tears.

 Red carpet interviews from the premiere were
 
  streamed live for fans
 
 who could not attend. And the show was as slickly produced as any pre-awards festivities, albeit one that edged toward camp at times. (For starters, Ms. Cink’s co-host
 
  interviewed a cat
 
 , one of
 
  several that played Goose
 
 in the movie.)

 Ms. Cink is an employee of Marvel Studios, which produced Captain Marvel. And if there is any question why the studio would air the red carpet live, consider this: The live stream has been watched more than 485,000 times on YouTube alone.

 Fans today clamor for anything related to their favorite movies and television franchises. As a result, live-streaming from the red carpet is not just for the Oscars anymore. More studios are producing their own red carpet extravaganzas, hiring battalions of brand-friendly hosts to market the studio’s offerings and control social media messaging. And with technology that makes live-steaming easy, new players have joined the fray to take advantage of the summer blockbuster season and its worldwide audience.


 “Movie premieres have become global moments,” said Doug Neil, Universal Pictures executive vice president for digital marketing. “Fans like to feel like they are part of the experience.”

 Mr. Neil would know. Last year the studio held only one premiere in London for “Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again.” With an army of Academy Award winners on the red carpet — including Meryl Streep, Colin Firth, Tom Hanks and Cher — the event would be difficult for Universal to reproduce elsewhere, he said. Premieres are expensive, too, sometimes costing $100,000 or more. So
 
  the festivities in London were live-streamed
 
 on Facebook, where they were viewed more than 451,000 times around the world.

 “The talent bench was so deep,” Mr. Neil said of the celebrities who attended. “And Facebook has our largest community of fans.” With streaming technology, he added, “It’s very easy to flip a switch.”


 The quality, though, can depend on whose hand is on the switch. “When we started doing this, it was iPhones on tripods,” said Alison Hoffman, chief marketing officer for the cable channel Starz. Now, she said, the company teams up with media outlets, like Entertainment Weekly, People and Entertainment Tonight, to host live stream red carpet events. That was the case last June at the premiere of “Power” at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan. The channel
 
  broadcast a live stream
 
 with three video cameras.


 “For the right show, it’s a critical part of the mix,” Ms. Hoffman said.

 That is not always the case, though. Last week, the cast of “Game of Thrones” gathered at Radio City Music Hall for the final red carpet premiere for the beloved HBO show. The spectacle was
 
  broadcast live
 
 by NowThis, a social media content company, which streamed unscripted, raw footage from the “Game of Thrones” press line. An HBO executive said the company was neither involved in nor aware of the live stream, which explains why it had none of the polish of a typical HBO affair.

 Photographers could be heard booing when Sophie Turner, who plays Sansa Stark, invited Joe Jonas, her pop star fiancé, to join her on the red carpet. “How about a kiss?” a man shouted at Lisa Bonet, the wife of Jason Momoa, who delighted as the he-man Khal Drogo in Season 1. Ms. Bonet shook her head no; her husband was visibly annoyed.


 The video itself was sketchy, too. The camera shook and the Wi-Fi was unreliable. Gwendoline Christie looked fetching in a flowing yellow gown until she waved her silken sleeves and the screen disappeared into a haze of pixelated squares. Still, the live stream has been watched more than 188,000 times on YouTube.

 “It’s not always the best quality that gets the most eyeballs,” said Tina Exarhos, the chief content officer of NowThis. “When you are on a red carpet, these are the moments you look for.”


 Despite the video’s raw quality, she added, “We are looking to do more and more of these with studios.”


 The Walt Disney Studios, which oversees Lucasfilm, Marvel Studios, Pixar and its own slate of movies, has the most sophisticated live-streaming operation in Hollywood. Lylle Breier, who oversees premieres and special events for the studio, said there were often multiple hosts — some on stages, others on the red carpet — and several cameras used for interviews.

 The movies that attract the most attention are the “Star Wars” and Marvel franchises. Last April’s red carpet premiere for “Avengers: Infinity War,” for example,
 
  has been watched 7.28 million times
 
 . There, Gwyneth Paltrow plugged her company, Goop. (“She did a Goop detox and she’s fine,” she said of her stressed-out character, Pepper Potts.) Ms. Paltrow also admitted to never having watched an “Avengers” movie.

 As many as 30 people are hired to produce a live-streamed red carpet show for a Disney company premiere. And hosts, like Ms. Cink, have jobs mostly because they are fans. “They do not ask reporter-type questions,” Ms. Breier said.


 Ms. Cink has hosted at least six streaming red carpet premieres and writes all her own questions. She copped to being flustered by only one celebrity: Stan Lee, the force behind Marvel Comics. (Mr. Lee
 
  died in November
 
 , and “Captain Marvel” carries a dedication to him, as well as a montage of his movie cameos in the Marvel logo.)


 Her background in improvisational theater is helpful, she said. Once her earpiece quit working during a live shot, which made it impossible to hear.


 “I looked like a deer in the headlights,” she said. “I screamed my intro. I know I looked, like, cuckoo bananas. And it was completely live. I was kicking off the whole show.”



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 NEW YORK — The 2019 Pulitzer Prize winners and finalists:


 JOURNALISM


 Public Service


 South Florida Sun Sentinel for examining mistakes by school and law enforcement officials before and after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school shooting massacre in Parkland, Florida.


 Nominated as finalists: ProPublica for reporting on family separations at the U.S. southern border and The Washington Post for coverage of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi.


 ___


 Breaking News Reporting


 Staff, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, for coverage of the massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue and its aftermath.


 Nominated as finalists: Staff, Chico Enterprise-Record in collaboration with the Bay Area News Group for coverage of the California wildfire and staff, South Florida Sun Sentinel, for coverage of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school shooting.

 ___


 Investigative Reporting


 Matt Hamilton, Harriet Ryan and Paul Pringle, Los Angeles Times, for reporting on a gynecologist at the University of Southern California accused of abusing young women over decades.


 Nominated as finalists: David Barstow, Susanne Craig and Russ Buettner, The New York Times, for reporting on President Donald Trump's finances and Kathleen McGrory and Neil Bedi, Tampa Bay Times, for reporting on an increase in patient fatalities at a pediatric heart treatment center after Johns Hopkins came in.


 ___


 Explanatory Reporting


 David Barstow, Susanne Craig and Russ Buettner, The New York Times, for their examination of family tax schemes that helped President Donald Trump inherit a fortune from his father.


 Nominated as finalists: Aaron Glantz and Emmanuel Martinez of Reveal from The Center for Investigative Reporting, Emeryville, California, in collaboration with The Associated Press, PRX and the PBS NewsHour, for an investigation into discrimination in the banking system; Kyra Gurney, Nicholas Nehamas, Jay Weaver and Jim Wyss of the Miami Herald for a look at a criminal operation centered around South American gold mining and reaching to Miami, and staff, The Washington Post, for stories about unsolved homicides in major American cities.


 ___


 Local Reporting


 Staff, The Advocate of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, for an examination of the state's jury system and a law that allowed convictions without a unanimous verdict.

 Nominated as finalists: Barbara Laker, Wendy Ruderman, Dylan Purcell and Jessica Griffin of The Philadelphia Inquirer for stories on toxins in Philadelphia school buildings, and Brandon Stahl, Jennifer Bjorhus, MaryJo Webster and Renée Jones Schneider of the Star Tribune, Minneapolis, Minnesota, for a series on failures in the system to investigate and prosecute rapes.


 ___


 National Reporting


 Staff, The Wall Street Journal, for stories disclosing payoffs during the campaign to two women who claimed to have had affairs with President Donald Trump, and how those transactions were handled.


 Nominated as finalists: Staff, The Associated Press, for coverage of the family separation policy of the Trump administration, and staff, The New York Times with contributions from Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian/The Observer of London, for reporting on tech firms' failure to protect private information and to allow the spread of misinformation.


 ___


 International Reporting


 Maggie Michael, Maad al-Zikry and Nariman El-Mofty, The Associated Press, for stories on famine and torture during Yemen's civil war.


 The staff of Reuters, with contributions from Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, on stories on the expulsion and killing of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar by the military and Buddhist villagers.


 Nominated as finalist: Rukmini Callimachi, for her coverage of the Islamic State group.


 ___


 Feature Writing


 Hannah Dreier, ProPublica, for stories about Salvadoran immigrants in New York affected by a federal crackdown on MS-13.

 Nominated as finalists: Deanna Pan and Jennifer Berry Hawes of The Post and Courier, Charleston, South Carolina, for the story of a teen black boy wrongly convicted of the deaths of two white girls and only exonerated 70 years later, and Elizabeth Bruenig, The Washington Post, for a story on a teen sex assault victim and the crime going unpunished.


 ___


 Commentary


 Tony Messenger, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, for columns showing how poor Missourians faced high fines or jail time over misdemeanor crimes.


 Nominated as finalists: Caitlin Flanagan, The Atlantic, for columns looking at gender and politics, and Melinda Henneberger, The Kansas City Star, for looking at sexism in a range of institutions including the hometown NFL team and the former governor's office.


 ___


 Criticism


 Carlos Lozada, The Washington Post, for reviews and essays on books focusing on government and America.


 Nominated as finalists: Jill Lepore, The New Yorker, for stories on a range of subjects including Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Frankenstein, and Manohla Dargis, The New York Times, for pieces examining the role of movies in the world.


 ___


 Editorial Writing


 Brent Staples, The New York Times, for editorials focusing on racial issues.


 Nominated as finalists: Editorial staff, The Advocate, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, for editorials calling for the abolishing of a Jim Crow-era law that allowed discrimination in the jury system, and editorial staff, Capital Gazette, Annapolis, Maryland, for reflections on gun violence and loss in the wake of a newsroom shooting.


 ___


 Editorial Cartooning


 Darrin Bell, freelancer, for cartoons taking aim at the Trump administration over political turmoil and the impact on marginalized communities.

 Nominated as finalists: Ken Fisher, drawing as Ruben Bolling, freelancer, for comics that offered political commentary and satire on the Trump administration, and Rob Rogers, freelancer, for illustrations that took aim at hypocrisy and injustice.


 ___


 Breaking News Photography


 Staff, Reuters, for images following the difficult journey of migrants attempting to get to the United States from South and Central America.


 Nominated as finalists: Noah Berger, John Locher and Ringo H. W. Chiu of The Associated Press, for images of the 2018 fire season in California, and photography staff, The Associated Press, for images of clashes in the Gaza Strip between Palestinians and Israelis.


 ___


 Feature Photography


 Lorenzo Tugnoli, The Washington Post, for photographs documenting the famine in Yemen.


 Nominated as finalists: Craig F. Walker, The Boston Globe, for photos of a young boy with a complex developmental disability, and Maggie Steber and Lynn Johnson of National Geographic, for a photo story about the youngest face transplant recipient in the U.S.


 ___


 Special Citation


 Capital Gazette, Annapolis, Maryland, in honor of the journalists, staff and editorial board for their response to the killings of their colleagues in a newsroom shooting.


 ___


 LETTERS, DRAMA AND MUSIC


 Fiction


 "The Overstory" by Richard Powers


 Nominated as finalists: "The Great Believers" by Rebecca Makkai and "There There" by Tommy Orange.

 ___


 Drama


 "Fairview" by Jackie Sibblies Drury


 Nominated as finalists: "Dance Nation" by Clare Barron and "What the Constitution Means to Me" by Heidi Schreck.


 ___


 History


 "Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom" by David W. Blight


 Nominated as finalists: "American Eden: David Hosack, Botany, and Medicine in the Garden of the Early Republic" by Victoria Johnson and "Civilizing Torture: An American Tradition" by W. Fitzhugh Brundage.


 ___


 Biography or Autobiography


 "The New Negro: The Life of Alain Locke" by Jeffrey C. Stewart


 Nominated as finalists: "Proust's Duchess: How Three Celebrated Women Captured the Imagination of Fin-de-Siècle Paris" by Caroline Weber and "The Road Not Taken: Edward Lansdale and the American Tragedy in Vietnam" by Max Boot.


 ___


 Poetry


 "Be With" by Forrest Gander


 Nominated as finalists: "feeld" by Jos Charles and "Like" by A. E. Stallings.


 ___


 General Nonfiction


 "Amity and Prosperity: One Family and the Fracturing of America" by Eliza Griswold


 Nominated as finalists: "In a Day's Work: The Fight to End Sexual Violence Against America's Most Vulnerable Workers" by Bernice Yeung and "Rising: Dispatches from the New American Shore" by Elizabeth Rush.


 ___


 Music


 "p r i s m" by Ellen Reid


 Nominated as finalists: "Still" by James Romig and "Sustain" by Andrew Norman.


 ___


 Special Citation


 Aretha Franklin, for her role in American music for more than 50 years.

 Advertisement

 Critic’s Notebook


 Shows about Leonard Cohen, instruments, punk graphics and punk sexual energy highlight the bonds between listeners and creators.

 
  Keith Richards's 1957 Gibson Les Paul, decorated with paint pens, on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 
 
  
   Credit
  
  
   
    Credit
   
   
    Karsten Moran for The New York Times
   
  
 

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Mark Richardson
 

 A man’s voice recites lines from a poem as fantastical low-resolution images of cityscapes are projected on a screen in a darkened room. “When I couldn’t sleep/I learned to write,” we hear him say. “I learned to write/what might be read/on nights like this/by one like me.”


 The lines come from Leonard Cohen’s “The Only Poem,” and the visuals, by Jon Rafman, are a collection of processed found photos and landscapes from video games that take the words somewhere far away and transform Cohen’s crisp verse into the narration of a dream.


 This piece can be found in “Leonard Cohen: A Crack in Everything,” an exhibition celebrating the life and work of the singer-songwriter,
 
  who died in 2016
 
 . It comes to the Jewish Museum on Friday after a run in
 
  Montreal
 
 .


 The lines from “The Only Poem” speak to the almost mystical bond between those who create art and those who consume it. When a transmission like the one described in the poem happens in pop music, particularly fertile ground for intense longing of all kinds, we might hear a fan say, “That song saved my life.”

 This emotional identification is, to varying degrees, the
 
 animating
 
 force behind four current museum shows that center on music, including “A Crack in Everything” and exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Arts and Design and the Museum of Sex. Each has something to say about how pop music fits into our lives, how we absorb its history, what it means to present the pop experience in an institutional setting, and how people use music to find themselves.

 At the Met, “Play It Loud: Instruments of Rock &amp; Roll,” which opened Monday, seeks to enrich what you already know, telling a familiar narrative through objects that seem like stars in their own right. Presented in collaboration with the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame, “Play It Loud” offers a vision of history in which the rock music that flowered in the 1960s and ’70s sits firmly at the center.


 The format of the rock band provides the structure of the show, with one room given over to the rhythm section (here we see a double bass from the low-end legend
 
  James Jamerson
 
 , whose playing provides the rhythmic drive for dozens of Motown hits, as well as drum kits from the Beatles and Metallica) and another showcasing “Guitar Gods,” featuring instruments from Eric Clapton, Jerry Garcia and many more. Another room has a display highlighting the guitar’s destruction, with pieces of instruments trashed by Kurt Cobain and Pete Townshend.

 To the extent that it shifts focus toward the tools of the rock trade, the show is illuminating. Of particular interest is the room set aside for “Creating a Sound,” which focuses on the sonic possibility of electronics and includes beautiful objects like the first Moog modular synthesizer owned by Keith Emerson of the progressive rock band Emerson, Lake &amp; Palmer.

 Emerson’s instrument is a towering monolith with patch cords hanging off it like an automaton’s viscera, and it highlights how the story of popular music is bound to technology. The Moog presents itself as a roadie’s worst nightmare — it’s almost impossible to imagine a crew packing up a machine of such complexity and loading it onto a truck for the next show.


 The lighting in “Play It Loud” is dim, perhaps reflecting rock music as the sound of the night. Each individual instrument shines like a beacon, as if it’s catching the glint of an onstage spotlight. It makes the space between audience member and musician seem vast, but that doesn’t diminish the wonder of browsing the tools once used by pop royalty.


 One of the defining principles of punk,
 
 in contrast,
 
 is that this gap should be much narrower. “Too Fast to Live, Too Young to Die: Punk Graphics, 1976-1986,” which opened Tuesday at the Museum of Arts and Design, adheres to this stricture. The presentation, curated by Andrew Blauvelt, director of the Cranbrook Art Museum in Michigan, is modest, befitting the humble beginnings of the images on display, and the show offers a fascinating look at how punk and new wave music met the eye.


 Many of the objects on display in “Too Fast to Live” were first hung in record stores or in the bedrooms of teenagers. Posters promoting new albums, tours and shows are mixed in with album art, zines, buttons and other miscellany. Most of the pieces are affixed to the walls with magnets and are not framed, and almost all show signs of wear. The presentation reinforces that this was commercial art meant for wide consumption, and the ragged edges and prominent creases in the works make the history feel alive.

 That enduringly ragged aesthetic extends to the design itself. Punk as an idea has never left the conversation and retains its aura of cool. Peter Saville’s iconic image for Joy Division’s “Unknown Pleasures” album, for example, seen here in a promotional poster, could just as easily be found on the T-shirt of a current high school student.


 Early on, punk’s cheap, trash-culture aesthetic bumped up against the art world, and the mix of high and low makes “Too Fast to Live” a rich show. One room focuses on the influence of comics, as seen in posters for the Angry Samoans and the Damned, while large and beautiful Stiff Records tour posters, designed by Barney Bubbles, bring to mind Warhol’s screen prints.


 But while the range of style and aesthetics on display is striking, almost everything here was created for a specific commercial purpose, and directed squarely at those who loved (and might one day love) these bands. The display of buttons that once decorated book bags and jean jackets drives this home. “Too Fast to Live” ultimately feels like a celebration of record culture and fandom. Through these objects, most of which were very inexpensive, a subset of music fans defined themselves as part of a tribe.


 The Museum of Sex has a show that comes at punk from another angle, illustrating the visceral core lurking beneath these iconic images. “Punk Lust: Raw Provocation 1971-1985” essays a secret history of this music, one based on the presentation of desire.

 In the exhibition, which opened in the fall, chain-link fencing surrounds mannequins adorned with fetish gear, and between that and the rivet-studded steel floors, you feel like you’re inside one of the trash-strewn early 1980s downtown New York clubs on display in films like Slava Tsukerman’s “Liquid Sky”
 
 
 or Martin Scorsese’s “After Hours.”

 As music movements go, punk rock, which, at its extremes, can be nihilistic or politically didactic, isn’t necessarily associated with sex. But “Punk Lust” suggests that carnal energy throbs at the music’s core.


 The show begins with imagery from the Velvet Underground: the 1963 paperback of that title, an exploration of what was then called deviant sexual behavior and gave the band its name, is one of the first objects on display. Working through photos, album art and fliers by artists like Iggy Pop, the New York Dolls, Patti Smith, and, yes, the Sex Pistols, the exhibition demonstrates how punk offered a space for sexual expression outside the mainstream.


 In the story told by “Punk Lust,” much of it laid out in placards by the writer and musician Vivien Goldman, one of the show’s curators, graphic sexual imagery is a tool for shock that frightens away the straight world and offers comfort to those who remain inside. While some of the power dynamic is typical — underage groupies cavorting with rock stars — images from female, queer and nonbinary artists like Jayne County and the Slits make a strong case for sex as an essential source of punk liberation.

 That sexual expression in music can encompass both crude pornographic fliers created by Adam Ant, which are on display in “Punk Lust,” and also the cool and elegant sensuality coursing through the work of Cohen, says something about how vast the subject is. The erotic side of Cohen’s catalog is one focus among many in “A Crack in Everything,” an exhibition that shows rather than tells.


 The curators of the show, John Zeppetelli of the Musée d’Art Contemporain de Montréal, and Victor Shiffman, commissioned artists of various disciplines to develop pieces inspired by Cohen.


 Some are simple and quiet, like “Ear on a Worm” from the film artist Tacita Dean, a small image playing on a loop high in the space that shows a perched bird, a reference to “Bird on the Wire” from Cohen’s 1969 album “Songs From a Room.”

 Some are closer to traditional documentary, like George Fok’s “Passing Through,” which intercuts performances by Cohen throughout his career with video that surrounds the viewer, suggesting the songs are constant and eternal while the performer’s body changes with time.


 Candice Breitz’s installation “I’m Your Man (A Portrait of Leonard Cohen)” gathers video portraits of 19 men over the age of 65 singing and humming Cohen’s songs. Each is life-size and high resolution, and the effect of walking through the room is as if the men were present. It’s a breathtaking meditation on fandom, aging and impermanence. (Cohen remained fully immersed in the last two subjects. His final album, “You Want It Darker,” a meditation on his own mortality, was released a month before his death at 82, after
 
  a fall in the nigh
 
 t.)

 Taken together, the layered work on display in “A Crack in Everything” has a lot to offer on Cohen, but even more to say about how we respond to music, bring it into our lives, and use it as both a balm and an agent for transformation.

 
  Leonard Cohen: A Crack in Everything
 


 Through
 
 Sept. 8 at the Jewish Museum, Manhattan; 212-423-3200,
 
  thejewishmuseum.org
 
 .


 
  Play It Loud: Instruments of Rock &amp; Roll
 


 Through
 
 Oct. 1 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art
 
  ,
 
 Manhattan; 212-535-7710,
 
  metmuseum.org
 
 .


 
  Punk Lust: Raw Provocation 1971-1985
 


 Through Nov. 30 at the Museum of Sex, 233 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan; 212-689-6337,
 
  museumofsex.com
 
 .


 
  Too Fast to Live, Too Young to Die: Punk Graphics, 1976-1986
 


 Through Aug. 18 at the Museum of Arts and Design, 2 Columbus Circle, Manhattan; 212-299-7777,
 
  madmuseum.org
 
 .

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Dave Itzkoff
  
 

 Today, we think of Marvel as the monolithic studio that each year reliably releases two or three blockbusters based on its costume-clad comic-book superheroes. It has built movies like
 
  “Captain Marvel”
 
 and
 
  “Black Panther”
 
 into money-minting franchises, and when its latest offering,
 
  “Avengers: Endgame,”
 
 is released on April 26, it will conclude a narrative spanning some 22 films that started with
 
  “Iron Man”
 
 in 2008.


 But Marvel’s prosperous future was hardly a certainty a decade or so ago. In the mid-2000s it was a smaller, inexperienced company that controlled the film rights for only a few of its lesser-known characters — other studios had already brought “X-Men,” “Spider-Man” and “Fantastic Four” to theaters — at a time when no one in Hollywood was yet contemplating the idea of an interconnected universe of superhero movies.


 That changed with the help of people like Kevin Feige, who had been an associate producer on “X-Men” before Marvel hired him in 2000; and
 
  Robert Downey Jr.
 
 , the veteran actor who was almost no one’s idea of a mass-market magnet when he emerged as a candidate to play Tony Stark, the eccentric billionaire hero of “Iron Man.”

 In interviews, Feige, now the president of Marvel Studios, and Downey — a star of three “Iron Man”s, four “Avengers” and a “Spider-Man” — spoke about the origins of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the choices they made, and what it’s all meant as “Endgame” approaches. Here are edited excerpts from those conversations.

 
  KEVIN FEIGE
 
 In 2006, when we were making our first appearance as our own studio at Comic-Con, the articles written around that were basically: “Marvel’s going to try to make movies themselves now. Too bad they’ve got to scrape the bottom of the barrel.” And I remember feeling, wow, I don’t think it’s the bottom of the barrel.


 Initially, there were 10 characters on an official list. And Iron Man was not one of them. Iron Man became one of them when the rights reverted back to Marvel from [New Line Cinema], it instantly went to the top of the list. We were very excited that we could do something different with that film. We had that and
 
  “The Incredible Hulk”
 
 in the same year. And internally, at Marvel corporate, “Hulk” — by far, the better-known property — seemed like the slam-dunk and “Iron Man” seemed like the risk.

 
  Marvel started hiring cast and crew for “Iron Man” in 2006 — first, the director Jon Favreau and then its star, Robert Downey Jr., both of whom were coming off recent flops.
 

 
  ROBERT DOWNEY JR.
 
 Jon and I had this connection. He’d had a movie that I very much enjoyed, and I’d had one that he very much enjoyed, bomb at the same time. His was
 
  “Zathura”
 
 and mine was
 
  “Kiss Kiss Bang Bang.”
 
 And “Zathura” put him in a position to be considered viable and capable of doing an effects-driven movie. And “Kiss Kiss Bang Bang,” if not the best movie I’ve ever done, it’s the one I made the fewest mistakes in as an actor.


 
  FEIGE
 
 I was so impressed with
 
  “Elf”
 
 [directed by Favreau], which could simply have been a silly comedy but had so much heart and depth to it. It has actually great action sequences in it. If you remember,
 
  when Santa’s sleigh doesn’t have enough magic power
 
 and the world has to sing — it’s barely lifting out of Central Park and then it rockets over Fifth Avenue, I found myself cheering in a theater at this Will Ferrell comedy.

 I have a distinct memory of being in this bullpen area of our production office, kicking around ideas with Jon, and Robert’s name came up. We both stopped and looked at each other, like: “Oh, that would be awesome. But nah, you can’t do that. Anyway, who else?” And we kept coming back to that.


 
  DOWNEY
 
 I took a meeting at Marvel. And then I was very pushy, to be honest, which is not really in my nature. But I just had a sneaking suspicion that I had nothing to lose. I decided to take it more seriously than I’d ever taken anything. I felt confident, and then I was told that the meeting went well but I wouldn’t put too much on it, it’s probably not going to go your way. I refused to let go of it.


 
  FEIGE
 
 I remember saying to a room full of marketing executives: “If we do our job right, the name Tony Stark will be as famous as the name Iron Man. Because unlike a lot of hero movies, this character is as interesting and as engaging outside of his costume, as he is inside of his costume.” [Downey had] not done something like this before, which meant, I felt, a screen test would help convince anybody that needed to be convinced. He, to his credit, was absolutely willing to audition for it.

 
  DOWNEY
 
 I’m
 
  married to a producer
 
 , and I think it’s odd if somebody thinks they’re above any part of any process that’s required for any project. I’ve never said, “I don’t do that anymore.” [Pause] Nowadays I might.

 
  Filming for “Iron Man” took place in 2007, at soundstages on the former site of the Hughes Aircraft Company in Los Angeles.
 


 
  DOWNEY
 
 We were at an assembly hangar where they made the Spruce Goose. We haven’t started shooting yet and we decide to take out a bunch of pellet pistols and put on protective eyewear, and me and Favreau and a couple other folks literally had a psychotic shootout. And I just thought that was the dumbest, unnecessary, insurance-risk thing I’ve ever done — and that’s really saying something. It was our comic-book D-Day. We knew it was upon us and we were about to start something that could wind up being culturally significant.


 
  During production of “Iron Man,” Feige had a flash of inspiration.
 


 
  FEIGE
 
 I got a call from Carter Cohn, who represents Sam Jackson, and he goes, “Sam’s a big fan — do you guys have anything for him?” And in
 
  the Ultimate line of Marvel Comics
 
 , they had been drawing Nick Fury exactly as Sam Jackson. I went: “Oh.
 
  What if he did a cameo for us as Nick Fury?
 
 ” We put it at the end of the credits so that really only hard-core fans were there. We didn’t interrupt the movie, where people go: “Why is Sam Jackson wearing an eyepatch? What’s going on?” And then, a couple months after “Iron Man,” “The Incredible Hulk” came out and
 
  Robert Downey walks into the end of that movie
 
 . We could see that, in a best-case scenario, we could start building the universe.


 
  Moviegoers got one of their first looks at “Iron Man” in the summer of 2007, when Favreau, Downey and the cast introduced
 
 
  
   footage from the film
  
 
 
 
 
  
   at Comic-Con International
  
 
 
  in San Diego.
 

 
  DOWNEY
 
 My missus always says the one thing she’ll never forget is watching me watch the footage at Comic-Con. Because she said I was literally trembling with excitement and satisfaction. And then I went to go shoot
 
  “Tropic Thunder.”
 
 I was showing Ben Stiller some of the footage from Comic-Con. He just looked at me in the most matter-of-fact way and said: “That movie’s going to be a hit. O.K., let’s get back to set and rehearse this scene.” I was like, Oh. He doesn’t just say that sort of stuff. So that was really cool.


 
  “Iron Man” was released on May 2, 2008. In its opening weekend, it grossed more than $98 million, and future Marvel movies were no longer a possibility but a certainty.
 


 
  DOWNEY
 
 We were at Giorgio Baldi, which is a famous Italian joint. We had a little private room there on Friday night as the numbers came in from Paramount. And I felt like we were at a horse race and we were all betting on ourselves, and we kept betting higher. I was like, “We’re going to break 85 [million]!”


 
  FEIGE
 
 That Monday after the opening weekend, we announced dates for “Iron Man 2,” “Thor,” “Captain America” and “Avengers.” I remember being very excited that the movie worked well enough that we could do this. We’re gonna do the plan! This is going to be a big deal. And the press did not treat it like a big deal. It was a footnote to an article about the success of the “Iron Man” opening weekend. And I went, Oh, I guess people don’t get it yet. [Laughs]


 
  DOWNEY
 
 The real daunting thing was, oh, that’s right, we have to go do this again. We get a year break, and I stayed very busy that year, and then we had to do it again. The word “franchise” is a verb, if you ask me. You are iterating something that needs to be recreated in some way and expanded upon every time.

 
  FEIGE
 
 I started to use phrases like “Phase 1 of the MCU,” because I didn’t want to merely think of an “Iron Man” trilogy or a “Thor” trilogy. Which is really the way most people had been conditioned to think about franchises. It all came from the comics — individual characters would occasionally come together for a mega-event limited series, in which everything would change, and then they would go back into their own comics, with the new powers or the new costumes or the psychological changes from that big adventure. That’s what we could do with one phase, and then an “Avengers” movie, a second phase, another “Avengers” movie, and then a third one to close it out.

 
  DOWNEY
 
 The first “Avengers” tour was just mind-bogglingly cool and strange, considering that the film was about to be released but was already being treated like it was a phenomenon. The sheer fact that the world was going, oh, you actually got a lot of actors and actresses to get along for long enough.


 
  As this latest phase of Marvel movies nears its conclusion, Feige and Downey tried to summarize the experience.
 


 
  FEIGE
 
 This has been my life for the better part of a decade. I’ve gotten married in that decade. I’ve had two kids in that decade. And I’ve produced 23 movies in that decade. I almost don’t want to stop and think about it, for fear of getting blubbery and embarrassing myself.


 
  DOWNEY
 
 If someone had walked into Giorgio Baldi that night and said, hey guys, I’m 10 Years From The Future Guy, let me tell what you started here. You would just go, “No, what if this goes wrong?” You’d be tripping on the what-if’s. It’s a faith-based activity.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 Today in History


 Today is Thursday, April 18, the 108th day of 2019. There are 257 days left in the year.


 Today's Highlight in History:


 On April 18, 1983, 63 people, including 17 Americans, were killed at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon, by a suicide bomber.


 On this date:


 In 1775, Paul Revere began his famous ride from Charlestown to Lexington, Massachusetts, warning colonists that British Regular troops were approaching.


 In 1906, a devastating earthquake struck San Francisco, followed by raging fires; estimates of the final death toll range between 3,000 and 6,000.

 In 1923, the first game was played at the original Yankee Stadium in New York; the Yankees defeated the Boston Red Sox 4-1.


 In 1934, the first laundromat (called a "washateria") opened in Fort Worth, Texas.


 In 1938, Superman, AKA "The Man of Steel," made his debut as the first issue of Action Comics (bearing a cover date of June) went on sale for 10 cents a copy. (In 2014, a nearly flawless original copy was sold on eBay for $3.2 million.)


 In 1943, Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, commander-in-chief of the Japanese Combined Fleet, was shot down and killed by U.S. fighters while approaching Bougainville in the Solomon Islands.


 In 1945, famed American war correspondent Ernie Pyle, 44, was killed by Japanese gunfire on the Pacific island of Ie Shima (ee-EH' shee-MAH'), off Okinawa.


 In 1956, American actress Grace Kelly married Prince Rainier (ren-YAY') of Monaco in a civil ceremony. (A church wedding took place the next day.)

 In 1978, the Senate approved the Panama Canal Treaty, providing for the complete turnover of control of the waterway to Panama on the last day of 1999.


 In 1988, an Israeli court convicted John Demjanjuk (dem-YAHN'-yuk), a retired auto worker from Cleveland, of committing war crimes at the Treblinka death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland. (However, Israel's Supreme Court later overturned Demjanjuk's conviction.)


 In 1995, quarterback Joe Montana retired from professional football. The Houston Post closed after more than a century.


 In 2013, the FBI released surveillance camera images of two suspects in the Boston Marathon bombing and asked for the public's help in identifying them, hours after President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama attended an interfaith service at a Roman Catholic cathedral.


 Ten years ago: President Barack Obama offered a spirit of cooperation to America's hemispheric neighbors at the Summit of the Americas in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. The White House said Obama was "deeply disappointed" at news Iran had convicted American journalist Roxana Saberi of spying for the United States and sentenced her to eight years in prison. (Saberi was released on appeal the following month.)


 Five years ago: An avalanche swept down a climbing route on Mount Everest, killing 16 Sherpa guides in the deadliest disaster on the world's highest peak.


 One year ago: Cuba's government selected 57-year-old First Vice President Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez as the sole candidate to succeed President Raul Castro, a move that would install someone from outside the Castro family in the country's highest office for the first time in nearly six decades; the 86-year-old Castro would remain head of the Communist Party. Amid a blackout that affected much of the rest of Puerto Rico, generators helped keep the lights on at a stadium in San Juan for the second of two games between the Cleveland Indians and the Minnesota Twins. Bruno Sammartino, who had once been one of the longest-reigning champions in professional wrestling, died at the age of 82.

 Today's Birthdays: Actor Clive Revill is 89. Actor James Drury is 85. Actor Robert Hooks is 82. Actress Hayley Mills is 73. Actor James Woods is 72. Actress-director Dorothy Lyman is 72. Actress Cindy Pickett is 72. Country musician Walt Richmond (The Tractors) is 72. Country musician Jim Scholten (Sawyer Brown) is 67. Actor Rick Moranis is 66. Actress Melody Thomas Scott is 63. Actor Eric Roberts is 63. Actor John James is 63. Rock musician Les Pattinson (Echo and the Bunnymen) is 61. Author-journalist Susan Faludi is 60. Actress Jane Leeves is 58. Ventriloquist-comedian Jeff Dunham is 57. Talk show host Conan O'Brien is 56. Bluegrass singer-musician Terry Eldredge is 56. Actor Eric McCormack is 56. Actress Maria Bello is 52. Actress Mary Birdsong is 51. Actor David Hewlett is 51. Rock musician Greg Eklund (The Oolahs) is 49. Actress Lisa Locicero is 49. Actress Tamara Braun is 48. TV chef Ludovic Lefebvre is 48. Actor Fedro Starr is 48. Actor David Tennant is 48. Country musician Marvin Evatt (EH'-veht) is 45. Rock musician Mark Tremonti is 45. Rhythm-and-blues singer Trina (Trina and Tamara) is 45. Actress Melissa Joan Hart is 43. Actor Sean Maguire is 43. Actor Kevin Rankin is 43. Actor Bryce Johnson is 42. Reality TV star Kourtney Kardashian (kar-DASH'-ee-uhn) is 40. Detroit Tigers first baseman Miguel Cabrera is 36. Actress America Ferrera is 35. Actor Tom Hughes is 34. Actress Ellen Woglom (TV: "Marvel's Inhumans") is 32. Actress Vanessa Kirby is 31. Actress Alia Shawkat is 30. Actress Britt Robertson is 29. Actress Chloe Bennet is 27. Rock singer Nathan Sykes (The Wanted) is 26. Actor Moises Arias is 25.


 Thought for Today: "War makes strange giant creatures out of us little routine men who inhabit the earth." — Ernie Pyle (1900-1945).

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 TOKYO — Cartoonist Monkey Punch, best known as the creator of the Japanese megahit comic series Lupin III, has died at age of 81.


 His office, MP Pictures, said Wednesday that Monkey Punch, whose real name is Kazuhiko Kato, died of pneumonia on April 11.


 The story of master thief Lupin's adventures with his gang — gunman Daisuke Jigen, sword master Goemon Ishikawa and sexy beauty Fujiko Mine, as well as a detective, Zenigata — started in 1967.


 The cartoon also was adapted for TV animation and movies, some directed by renowned animators including Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata.

 Kato himself directed the 1996 animated film "Lupin III: Dead or Alive." Miyazaki, who directed a 1971 Lupin animation for TV, made his feature-length film debut with "Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro" in 1997.


 The hard-boiled, yet comical story with a bit of sexy content has quickly won adult comic fans and became a longtime best-seller. Kato's intended readership was adults, and he reportedly has told younger fans to watch Lupin TV animation and read comic books when they become high school students.


 The main character in his trademark red jacket is a grandson of famous Arsene Lupin in a Maurice Leblanc detective story.


 The son of a fisherman in Hokkaido, in northern Japan, Kato debuted as a professional cartoonist in 1965 while working part time at a rental bookstore, and started using his penname Monkey Punch soon after the Lupin series started in the Weekly Manga Action magazine.


 Despite his age, he quickly adapted to digital animation and studied animation on multimedia formats at a technical graduate school in Tokyo in the 2000s. Kato also taught animation at a university in Nishinomiya in western Japan.

 ___

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Fiction


 When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 By
 
 
  Stephen Mccauley
 

 
  THE ALTRUISTS
 
 
 By Andrew Ridker


 Even if it’s true that every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way, it seems pretty clear that many have the same dilemmas and woes. One that frequently pops up in life and literature is an inability or unwillingness to let go of the past and its generations-spanning mistakes, disappointments and resentments.


 The tyranny of the past is a central problem in “The Altruists,”
 
  Andrew Ridker
 
 ’s intelligent, funny and remarkably assured first novel. The book’s family-get-together plot tosses Arthur Alter and his two adult children a chance — possibly their last — to escape their individual ruts of inherited grief, guilt and misguided attempts at altruism, finally connect with one another and move on.


 Naturally, things don’t go as planned. Whatever that means for the characters, it’s good news for readers: The clash of reunion expectations and the reality of family ties give Ridker an opportunity to write some of the book’s most comedic and moving scenes and, in doing so, to establish himself as a big, promising talent.


 Two years after his wife’s death, Arthur is unraveling. At 65, he’s a disrespected adjunct professor of engineering at a private Midwestern university. “His career was in a coffin, ignored by even the thirstiest of academic vampires.” He’d like to end his relationship with a much younger junior faculty member, but then “he’d have to confront the loneliness that had frightened him into her arms in the first place.” His son and daughter — both living in New York — barely speak to him. Among other unforgivable offenses, Arthur started his affair before their mother’s cancer diagnosis and continued it throughout her decline.

 He wakes up one morning broke and at risk of losing the family house in a privileged residential enclave of St. Louis. He misses his children. Sort of. “What he missed was his old life, and his children had been part of that. … The children — and the unexpected money in their name.”


 Ah, yes, the money! This is a substantial sum his wife secretly invested and left to their kids in a last-minute revision to her will. She assessed her husband’s uncharacteristic kindness in her final days and concluded that he had to be sleeping with someone else. “‘Maybe I’m being nice. Can’t I be nice?’ ‘No,’ she said. ‘No, Arthur, I don’t think you can.’” (That comment is a clue to readers about how likely they are to cozy up to Arthur. At least initially.)


 Hoping to hit them up for a loan, Arthur sends terse notes to “the children” proposing they come back to St. Louis for a long weekend. “Important to see family, remember roots, &amp;C.”


 It’s not as if Maggie and Ethan Alter have forgotten their roots. If anything, they’re being choked by them. In their late 20s and early 30s respectively, they’re still wrestling with the loss of their mother, Francine, their guilt about the unearned money they inherited from her and their anger at Dad.

 Maggie is trying to make a difference in the world, mostly through ineffective self-sacrifice. She’s dumped her corporate boyfriend, lives in a partially boarded-up apartment building and rarely eats. Between fainting spells, she does low-paying odd jobs “for the good people of Queens.” This includes tutoring preteen brothers, one of whom practices martial arts on her. “Maggie tolerated, even welcomed, Bruno’s abuse. … Because that was the thing about trying to do good: You always wound up knuckled in the gut.” Ridker’s satire of ill-conceived do-gooderism is scathing and hilarious, making Maggie both ridiculous and sympathetic.


 While Maggie is starving, Ethan is “girding himself in comfort.” He’s bought a sunny Brooklyn apartment and outfitted it with expensive kitchen appliances he rarely uses. In a fit of moral disgust, he quit his job at a predatory consulting firm and began spending down his savings and his inheritance. When “The Altruists” opens, he’s in debt, single and reclusive. More than one boyfriend has dropped him thanks to his passivity and emotional unavailability. He spends his time reading philosophy as “an antidote to all the screens, a diversion from the Crate and Barrel spirits cabinet with its lacquer exterior and liquor interior.”


 The siblings, unaware of their father’s financial crisis and with mercenary plans of their own, agree to his suggested visit. They arrive in St. Louis shortly after a tornado has ripped the roof off a concourse at the airport, which kind of says it all.


 Andrew Ridker edited an anthology of “surveillance poetics,” published in 2014. That is, poetry dealing with the disappearance of privacy thanks to drones, tracking devices and other tools of voyeurism. He writes sentences with the lively, poetic zing of one as attuned to the sounds of words as to their meanings. “A vast, flocculent cloud darkened and devitalized the city, mimicking the family mood like weather does in memories.” A character’s bald spot is “berated” by rain. His commentary on the cultural eccentricities of pre-Trump middle-class America (the book is set in 2015) is astute and highly entertaining. “His classmates were extremely forthcoming with sensitive information, as though intimacy wasn’t something to be earned, but baby-birded from one mouth to another.” And his descriptions have enough wit and psychological accuracy to make even minor characters spring to multidimensional life. “The dean’s leathery voice was gilded with an aristocratic affect he exhibited tastefully, like a gold watch that spends most of its time tucked under a sleeve.”


 It is perhaps appropriate that in writing about characters so burdened by the weight of the past, Ridker devotes nearly as many pages to backward glances as he does to present action. In scenes told from alternating points of view — including that of the late matriarch, Francine — he explores, among other things, Ethan’s college days and awkward coming out, Francine’s childhood and adolescence, and Arthur and Francine’s courtship. Most significantly (and with great success) he describes an extended trip Arthur made to Africa when he was in his early 30s and still idealistic. His plan was to use his engineering skills to bring sanitation to rural Zimbabwe. The spectacular failure of his project brings him, literally, to his knees, shapes his future and haunts the entire family for decades to come. Ridker’s ambitious blend of global perspective and intimate human comedy seems likely to evoke comparisons to the work of
 
  Jonathan Franzen
 
 and
 
  Nathan Hill
 
 .


 As convincing and engaging as these flashbacks are, they do interrupt the main story line that’s set up in the opening chapters, and at times I longed for more unimpeded forward momentum. Maggie and Ethan don’t arrive at that damaged airport until the novel’s midpoint.


 On balance, Ridker’s almost psychoanalytic peeling back of layers of time and experience gets to the heart of the family’s dysfunction while creating characters with true depth. I found myself rooting for the Alters to finally turn a little of their altruism on themselves so that, healed, they could make more effective stabs at doing good elsewhere. The warm ending opens up the possibility of a bright future for them, which is precisely what this outstanding debut suggests for its talented author.

 Stephen McCauley’s seventh novel, “My Ex-Life,” will be reissued in paperback next month.


 THE ALTRUISTS
 
 By Andrew Ridker
 
 308 pp. Viking. $26.





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 Fans of AMC’s “The Walking Dead” will be meeting a new group of survivors next year in a new spinoff that will center on two young women.


 The spinoff was cocreated by
 
  Scott M. Gimple
 
 , chief content officer of The Walking Dead television universe, and Matt Negrete, a writer and producer on “The Walking Dead.”


 The original TV series, which is based on the Walking Dead comic book created by Robert Kirkman and published by Image, had its debut in 2010 and
 
  completed its ninth season in March
 
 , and will return later this year. A spinoff, “Fear the Walking Dead,” began in 2015 and ended is fourth season in September last year. It is scheduled to return in June.


 
  [Read more about
 
 
  
   Andrew Lincoln of “The Walking Dead,” who left the show in the fall
  
 
 
  but will return in a series of movies.]
 

 “Showing audiences an unseen pocket of ‘The Walking Dead’ universe steeped in a new mythology is a very cool way to celebrate a ‘Decade of the Dead’ on TV and over 15 years of Robert Kirkman’s brilliant comic,” Gimple said in a statement announcing the show.


 The new series will focus on characters who are the first generation of survivors to come of age in a world overrun by zombies. The announcement promised: “Some will become heroes. Some will become villains. In the end, all of them will be changed forever.”







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 anatomy of a scene


 The director David F. Sandberg discusses a scene featuring Zachary Levi and Jack Dylan Grazer.


 By
 
 
  
   Mekado Murphy
  
 

 
  In “Anatomy of a Scene,” we ask directors to reveal the secrets that go into making key scenes in their movies. See new episodes in the series each Friday. You can also
 
 
  
   watch our collection of more than 150 videos on YouTube
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   subscribe to our YouTube channel
  
 
 
  .
 


 So, you’ve discovered you’re a superhero. Now what?


 Many a comic-book origin story movie has had to answer this question, and “Shazam!” approaches it with both a light touch and a heavy splat. In this scene, Zachary Levi plays Billy, a boy recently imbued with new powers (along with an adult body). His foster brother Freddy (Jack Dylan Grazer) helps him figure out just what those powers are in a sequence that involves a painful-looking stunt leap and some pyrotechnics. In commentary, the director David F. Sandberg discusses how he worked out the comic timing with Levi and Grazer, and how he gave the Michael Bay treatment to a transformer (but not
 
  that
 
 kind of transformer).

 
  Read a review of “Shazam!”
 


 
  Learn more about the history of the character Shazam.
 


 
  Sign up for the Movies Update newsletter
 
 and get a roundup of reviews, news, Critics’ Picks and more.

 Mekado Murphy is a senior staff editor with a focus on movies coverage. He joined The Times in 2006.
 
  
   
    @
   
   mekadomurphy
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Issue 4.14.19


 
  Bill Wasik, deputy editor:
 
 “For our special issue on the economic dimension of climate change, Pablo Delcan dreamed up this darkly comic illustration — a collage of multicolored price stickers, adding up to an impressionistic vision of the earth on fire.”


 Read
 
  “The Problem With Putting a Price on the End of the World.”
 

 Cover illustration by Pablo Delcan

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 KIEV — Comic actor Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a political novice who plays a fictional president in a popular TV series, is likely to win in Ukraine's presidential election race, according to an opinion poll published on Thursday.


 The poll by Reiting research body, the first survey for the election's second round, showed Zelenskiy on 61 percent of votes and incumbent Petro Poroshenko on 24 percent.


 (Reporting by Andrey Makhovsky, writing by Pavel Polityuk; Editing by Janet Lawrence)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 KIEV, Ukraine — Ukraine's president on Thursday ordered the creation of a special anti-corruption court in an apparent attempt to catch up with his challenger, who has taken a commanding lead in the presidential runoff race.


 A poll conducted by the Reiting survey group found comic actor Volodymyr Zelenskiy with 61% support while President Petro Poroshenko had 24% ahead of a runoff set for April 21. The poll released Thursday was based on answers from 3,000 respondents and had a margin of error of 1.8 percentage points.


 The 41-year-old comic actor, who plays the role of the nation's president in a hugely popular TV sitcom, has never held political office.


 Zelenskiy's popularity, however, reflects public longing for a fresh leader who has no ties to Ukraine's corruption-ridden political elite and can propose a new way to settle the grinding five-year conflict with Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine that has left 13,000 people dead since 2014.

 He easily beat Poroshenko in the first round on March 31, garnering 30% of the vote, while the incumbent got just under 16%.


 Amid an increasingly heated campaign, Zelenskiy's office on Thursday accused Poroshenko's election headquarters of posting a video in which Zelenskiy is run over by a heavy truck. It said it perceives the video as a clear threat that warrants additional security measures.


 Poroshenko's campaign denied that it was responsible for putting out the video and Ukrainian police said they launched a criminal investigation into the incident.


 Poroshenko, 53, saw his approval ratings plummet amid Ukraine's economic woes and a sharp plunge in living standards amid a conflict with Russia, which annexed Ukraine's Crimea Peninsula in 2014.


 He has cast himself as a strong statesman capable of standing up to Russia, claiming that Zelenskiy's lack of political experience will make him an easy prey for the Kremlin. But even though most of the world has rejected Russia's annexation of Crimea, there are no signs that Ukraine under any political leader is getting the territory back.

 Poroshenko also has been repeatedly accused of turning a blind eye to corruption. In addition, the exposure of a military embezzlement scheme that allegedly involved top Poroshenko associates as well as a factory controlled by the president has badly dented his popularity. Poroshenko has denied any links to the scheme.


 In an apparent bid to deflect criticism, Poroshenko on Thursday signed a decree to appoint members of the High Anti-Corruption Court — a longtime demand of both the United States and the European Union.


 "By setting up the Anti-Corruption Court, we are completing the creation of an independent anti-corruption infrastructure," he said.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 KIEV — Comic actor Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a political novice who plays a fictional president in a popular TV series, has kept his lead in Ukraine's presidential election race, according to an opinion poll published on Thursday.


 The poll by research body Reiting showed Zelenskiy on 57.9 percent of votes and incumbent Petro Poroshenko on 21.7 percent. Reiting polled 3,000 voters in all regions, except annexed Crimea, from April 12 to 16.


 The previous poll made by Reiting in April 5-10 gave Zelenskiy 61 percent of votes while Poroshenko received 24 percent.


 Poroshenko and Zelenskiy will meet in the second round of Ukraine's presidential election, which will take place on April 21. Zelenskiy won nearly twice as many votes as Poroshenko in the first round, on March 31.

 (Reporting by Pavel Polityuk; Editing by Gareth Jones)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 KIEV — The presidential candidate and comic actor Volodymyr Zelenskiy is likely to win Ukraine's presidential election, according to an opinion poll published on Tuesday.


 The poll by the KIIS research firm showed Zelenskiy, a political novice who plays a fictional president in a popular TV series, on 72.2 percent of the vote. Incumbent Petro Poroshenko was on 25.4 percent.


 KIIS polled 2,004 voters in all regions, except annexed Crimea, from April 9 to 14.


 Last week, a poll by Reiting research agency gave Zelenskiy 61 percent of votes and incumbent Petro Poroshenko 24 percent.


 Poroshenko and Zelenskiy will meet in the second round of Ukraine's presidential election, which will take place on April 21. Zelenskiy won nearly twice as many votes as Poroshenko in the first round, on March 31.

 (Reporting by Andrey Makhovsky, writing by Pavel Polityuk, editing by Larry King)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 LOS ANGELES — From gossipy housewives to lovelorn bachelors and lip-syncing drag queens, reality television is getting its own fan event.


 Youth channel MTV on Tuesday announced it would host the first reality television convention, where fans and some of the people made famous by shows like "Jersey Shore," "The Real Housewives" and "The Bachelor" will come together to celebrate the genre.


 MTV, whose "The Real World" is credited with launching the modern trend for reality television in 1992, said that the RealityCon event would take place in the summer of 2020.


 It will feature performances, interviews and discussions with stars and producers behind some of reality television's most popular series across TV networks, including "Survivor," "Big Brother", "The Hills" and "RuPaul's Drag Race."

 Reality television exploded in the early 2000s when shows like "American Idol," "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" and "Survivor" became some of the most-watched content on U.S. television.


 These shows have also become a driving force in pop culture by increasing ethnic and sexual diversity and breaking formerly taboo topics by casting unknown people from all walks of life. "The Real World" in 1994 was the first to feature an openly gay man with HIV/AIDS on television in its series about a group of young adults living together in the same house in San Francisco.


 MTV said it would announce dates and more details about RealityCon at a later stage.


 Comic books and movies like "Star Wars" have held fan conventions around the world for years, often using them as the launching ground for upcoming films, games, television shows and merchandising.


 (Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 LOS ANGELES — The directors of "Avengers: Endgame" pleaded with fans on Tuesday not to spoil the movie by giving away storylines after reports that some scenes had leaked online.


 In an open letter posted on Twitter under the hashtag #DontSpoilTheEndgame, Joe and Anthony Russo said they and the vast cast of the upcoming Marvel superhero movie "have worked tirelessly for the last three years with the sole intention of delivering a surprising and emotionally powerful conclusion" to the saga.


 "When you see Endgame in coming weeks, please don't spoil it for others, the same way you wouldn't want it spoiled for you," they added.


 Walt Disney Co's "Avengers: Endgame" marks the conclusion of a story told across 22 Marvel films. The plot has been shrouded in secrecy, with no advance screenings for the entertainment press. Sales of advance tickets earlier this month surpassed those of 2015 movie "Star Wars: The Force Awakens."

 The film, which brings together multiple comic book characters, starts its rollout on April 24 in Australia and China before arriving in the United States on April 25.


 Some fans said on Tuesday they had seen brief, grainy scenes on Reddit, YouTube and other platforms, but the footage was swiftly removed. Reuters has not seen the leaked scenes and Disney declined to comment.


 The #DontSpoilTheEnding hashtag was one of the top Twitter trends on Tuesday. Some fans who said they had viewed the leaks said they only increased their anticipation for the movie.


 "I was upset for about 0.2 seconds then realized how cool it was and it made me so hyped," a person with the user name thestaggie posted on Reddit.


 Chris Smith, a contributor to the BGR.com entertainment and tech news site, wrote that he had seen a leak but that it "doesn't really give away the ending" of the movie, although it contained scenes that had not been shown in any of the trailers or official clips released so far.

 "I don’t consider that the leak has actually ruined the movie for me. It just makes me want to watch it even more than I already did," wrote Smith.


 (Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Peter Cooney)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 KIEV, Ukraine — The comedian who is odds-on favorite in Ukraine's presidential election promised Thursday to hold a nationwide referendum on joining NATO only after building a national consensus on the issue.


 Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a popular comic actor who's leading in the polls far ahead of President Poroshenko, said "we have clearly chosen our path to Europe."


 But he emphasized the need to secure a solid majority backing the country's prospective membership in the alliance.


 "It's obvious that NATO means security and the military's high level, but I want to unite the country," he told RBC Ukraine website.

 Zelenskiy added that he would appeal to people living in the mostly Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine to dispel their negative view of NATO. "I will record daily video appeals to the eastern regions of Ukraine to tell them that NATO isn't a beast that is going to swallow you," he said.


 Poroshenko has pushed for Ukraine's membership in NATO and the European Union, though neither alliance is willing to put the country on a track to membership any time soon because of its economic woes, rampant corruption and the five-year conflict with Russia-backed separatist in eastern Ukraine.


 The fighting in the east erupted in April 2014 weeks after Russia's annexation of Crimea and the ouster of Ukraine's former Russia-friendly president.


 Zelenskiy vowed to make ending hostilities in the east his top priority. In Thursday's interview, he pledged to reach out to people living in the rebel-controlled areas to again make them feel part of Ukraine.


 Poroshenko's government has introduced a sweeping transport blockade of separatist territories, making it extremely difficult for the people living there to receive pensions and other social payments.

 "I very much hope to make these people feel that Ukraine needs them just as much as they need Ukraine," said Zelenskiy, who won nationwide fame for playing the nation's president in a popular TV sitcom. "It would be necessary to take a lot of humanitarian steps."


 Zelenskiy also said he would push for an early parliamentary election. Ukraine's Supreme Rada is controlled by Poroshenko's ruling party, and the next parliamentary election is due at the end of October.


 Zelenskiy said an early parliamentary election of is part of his idea of a "renewal" of the country's ruling elite, but conceded it may take months to make that happen.


 The latest opinion poll released Thursday showed the comedian maintaining a massive lead against Poroshenko. Supporters see Zelenskiy as a man who could tackle the nation's economic woes and corruption, but his opponents point to his lack of political experience.


 The survey, conducted by the Rating agency, shows Zelenskiy with 58% support while Poroshenko has just 22%. The poll of 3,000 people had a margin of error of 1.8 percentage points.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Iuliia Mendel
 
 and
 
  
   Neil MacFarquhar
  
 

 KIEV, Ukraine — A young television comic and novice candidate trounced Ukraine’s political elite in the first round of the presidential election, official results showed Monday — a stinging rebuke by an electorate tired of the lack of change in a country dominated by rich businessmen.


 With the initial vote tally nearly complete,
 
  results released
 
 by the Central Electoral Committee showed that Volodymyr Zelensky, 41, who is famous for playing
 
  a schoolteacher accidentally vaulted into the presidency,
 
 leading the field with more than 30 percent. He received 5.2 million votes, almost double the number of his nearest competitor, President Petro O. Poroshenko, who had just under 16 percent.


 Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a former prime minister who has run for president twice before, came in third with more than 13 percent. The turnout was more than 63 percent in an electorate of 30 million, the electoral commission said.


 Since no candidate garnered more than 50 percent of the vote, Mr. Zelensky and the apparent second-place finisher, Mr. Poroshenko, will face each other in a runoff in three weeks, on April 21.

 As soon as the polls closed on Sunday and exit polls indicated that there would be a runoff, the two leading candidates began bashing each other.


 Mr. Zelensky presented himself as an insurgent facing a tired old guard that had refused to take him seriously. He walloped
 
  a field of 38 other candidates
 
 representing different political blocs in Ukraine, most of whom attracted only small fractions of the vote.

 A Zelensky adviser described the outcome as the culmination of a
 
  series of uprisings
 
 in Ukraine in 2004 and 2014 that succeeded in overthrowing governments but failed to break the grip of the oligarchs who control economic and political life, as well as the media.


 “This is a struggle so that the political system finally starts working not for its own benefit, but for the benefit of the people,” said Dmitri Razumkov, a political consultant for Mr. Zelensky. “Despite two revolutions, nothing has changed in our country.”

 Mr. Zelensky has been vague about what he would do as president, and at one point tried to crowdsource his program by suggesting that supporters contribute thoughts via social media. Voters might demand more in the second round.


 There have also been suspicions that he is a front for Ihor V. Kolomoisky, a Ukrainian tycoon who fled to Israel
 
  amid a banking scandal.
 
 Both men have denied any secret pact.


 Mr. Poroshenko, 53, conceded on Sunday night that he had lost the confidence of young voters weary over the slow pace of change and the continuing economic woes. But he said that the time for joking was over and that Ukraine needed a leader who could confront both its socioeconomic problems and, more important, the conflict with Russia.


 The election will help determine the course of the country that has become the European fault line in renewed global tensions between Russia and the West. The war for control of the Donbass, the regions in eastern Ukraine where government forces are fighting Russian-backed separatists, has claimed 13,000 lives and displaced millions since 2014.


 In a sign of the deep rift with Russia, the main rivalry in the presidential race was not, unlike a decade ago, between pro-Russian and pro-Western factions. The leading ally of Russia this time, Yuriy Boyko, was in fourth place, with over 11 percent of the vote.

 Mr. Poroshenko faces an uphill battle in a runoff, political analysts said, not least because he remains one of the wealthiest men in Ukraine. His wealth comes from his chocolate empire, and he did not fulfill a 2014 campaign promise to sell his business. Various businessmen close to him have been caught up
 
  in scandals involving corruption.
 

 The president continued to grow richer as ordinary Ukrainians suffered from low wages and unemployment, noted Volodymr Fesenko, a political analyst.


 The election outcome echoes a global trend of tossing out established political leaders in favor of candidates who promise a complete national overhaul, Mr. Fesenko and other analysts said.


 “The victory of Zelensky is a protest against the old elites and the request for radical political change, a radical update,” said Mr. Fesenko, chairman of a think tank called the
 
  Center for Applied Political Studies
 
 . It is not so much love for the comedian as “the expectation that he can become a catalyst for change,” he said.


 Ukrainians seem less enamored of their leaders all the time. A mere 9 percent voiced confidence in the government, and 91 percent see it as corrupt,
 
  according to a Gallup poll conducted in March.
 


 In Russia, Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin, declined to comment on the first-round voting results. Russia’s main interest is seeing a candidate prevail who will work toward a gradual settlement of the conflict in Donbass, he said.


 Other Russian political leaders and the state-run media tried to present the Ukrainian election as a farce and a rebuke to the idea that a political uprising like that in Ukraine in 2014 could force change. Rossiyskaya Gazeta, the government newspaper, said there were signs of “massive violations and falsifications in these elections — the dirtiest and most dishonest in the history of Ukraine.”


 The Russian reports and commentary ignored the widespread perception that the election in Ukraine was democratic, with a real choice and an outcome that was not preordained — unlike elections in Russia. Only minor election law violations have been reported thus far.

 Iuliia Mendel reported from Kiev, and Neil MacFarquhar from Moscow. Andrew Kramer contributed reporting from Moscow.








 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 Second Coming, a comic-book series with Jesus Christ as a character, is getting a second chance after DC Comics canceled it last month before its release. The series, written by
 
  Mark Russell
 
 and drawn by
 
  Richard Pace
 
 , will be published by
 
  AHOY Comics
 
 this summer. In the satirical comic, Jesus has a superhero roommate named Sunstar and learns what has become of his Gospel on earth.


 Russell said his inspiration for Second Coming was to tell a story about power, in particular about how society “has fetishized physical violence and force as being the solution to every problem.” During a recent telephone interview, Russell said his goal was to examine that notion “by having a superhero who’s bought into this ideology being forced to confront somebody who has a completely different approach to human dynamics. Christ seemed like the natural standard-bearer for that nonviolent approach.”


 The series was originally announced in July 2018 at San Diego Comic-Con. The next month, Russell discussed his plans
 
  in an interview with Bleeding Cool
 
 , a website devoted to pop culture. “The conceit is that God was so upset with Jesus’s performance the first time he came to Earth, since he was arrested so soon and crucified shortly after, that he has kept him locked up since then,” he said.

 There was no adverse reaction until January, when news about the comic was reported by outlets like the
 
  Christian Broadcasting Network
 
 ,
 
  Christian Headlines
 
 and
 
  Fox News
 
 . The Christian Broadcasting article described Second Coming as “closer to blasphemous than biblical” and noted the comic’s plans to present Jesus as a failure. A Citizen Go
 
  online petition
 
 asking DC to pull the series from its publication schedule garnered more than 235,000 signatures. The petition described the comic as inappropriate, and asked, “Can you imagine the media and political uproar if DC Comics was altering and poking fun at the story of Muhammad … or Buddha?” DC canceled the title on Feb. 13.

 Russell said that Second Coming, which will run for at least six issues starting July 10, is respectful of what Christians “profess to believe.” He added, “It’s not as respectful as to what they actually do. It’s not a satire of Christ so much as it is a satire on how his followers of the last 2,000 years have turned his message of forgiveness and empathy into one of power and domination, which is as un-Christlike as one can possibly imagine.”


 This is not the first time the writer has taken on God. In 2013, Russell wrote “
 
  God Is Disappointed in You
 
 ,” with illustrations by Shannon Wheeler, which promised to strip the Bible of its arcane language to get to its core message.


 The artist Richard Pace was recruited by the original editor of Second Coming when it was planned for Vertigo, an imprint of DC Comics, and he said he was intrigued by the mix of religion and satire. “I’m not afraid of that, so I said sure,” Pace recalled. He said he has received death threats since the project was announced.


 “No one has read the book other than the people who are working on it,” Pace said. “I know full well that the only person coming out of it looking good is Jesus.”

 Pace will lay out each issue and draw the scenes in heaven and in biblical times, while a second artist, who has not yet been named, will handle the scenes set on earth. “It gives us a chance to have a really visual indication of where the reader is in a story,” he said.

 Another interpretation of Jesus can be found in a hardcover graphic novel to be released on March 20 by Image Comics. “Jesusfreak,” by Joe Casey and Benjamin Marra, is described on the publisher’s website as telling a violent
 
  story of the Messiah
 
 as “a kung fu demon slayer” who is “grappling with his station in life, the politics of the era, and divine martial art energies.” The book was
 
  discussed in a segment on “Fox &amp; Friends” last week
 
 , and a Change.org petition to stop it had about
 
  2,800 signatures
 
 .


 Both Russell and Pace said that the delay in publication and the move from DC to AHOY has given them time to improve Second Coming. The first issue will include six extra pages that recount Christ’s memories of a childhood friend during his first visit to earth. And DC had requested some changes — like less coarse language and adding fig leaves to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden — that are no longer necessary. While Russell was ready to make them, he knew more would be coming, he said.


 “That’s what made me realize that this was going to slowly turn into a more watered-down version of what I had originally envisioned,” he said. When he asked for the rights of the project to be returned, DC agreed.


 
  Tom Peyer
 
 , the editor in chief of AHOY Comics, was happy to welcome Second Coming into its flock of series, all of which have an element of comedy or satire. The company began publishing last September.


 Peyer said he was not worried about the strong prepublication reaction to the series. “I don’t think a comic book is anything to get that upset about,” he said. “I just think it’s a really good story that people have a right to read.”







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 American Ronin, about highly trained corporate operatives; Fight Girls, about warriors vying to be queen of the galaxy; and Bad Mother, about a parent searching for her missing daughter: These are some of the stories that are coming from a new comics publisher, Artists, Writers &amp; Artisans, one that is posing the question, what stories could we develop if we begin with a blank slate?


 In comic books, there are two main publishing models. One emphasizes flagship characters — like Batman and Spider-Man — whose success largely benefits their companies, DC and Marvel Comics. The other is creator-focused, where hits like The Walking Dead, by Robert Kirkman and published by Image Comics, can mean a financial windfall for its creators. AWA is aiming for something between the two: It will have interconnected superhero comics like DC and Marvel as well as stand-alone series like Image. And all of its creators will have a financial stake.


 It’s an approach reminiscent of old Hollywood. “The model here really is the old United Artists model, where people who are actually doing the creative have ownership, control and decision-making power over the work that they’re doing,” said Bill Jemas, a former chief operating officer and publisher at Marvel who is the chief executive and publisher of AWA. Joining him at the helm are Axel Alonso, a former editor in chief at Marvel, as chief creative officer and Jonathan F. Miller as chairman. Miller helped broker a deal in 2017 between the comic book writer
 
  Mark Millar and Netflix
 
 , which bought his library of characters for development on the streaming service. Jemas and Alonso say the first of AWA’s titles will arrive some time this fall.

 
  [Read about TKO, another
 
 
  
   new comics publisher aiming to shake things up
  
 
 
  .]
 


 “What we’re offering creators is an opportunity to bet on themselves without putting it all on the line,” Alonso said, during a recent conference-call interview with Jemas. Their stable of writers and artists includes both veterans and newcomers, Alonso said. They would be paid to produce the work as well as own their stories and characters, a percentage of the company or both.

 Besides AWA — whose team also includes
 
  Frank Cho
 
 , the writers
 
  Peter Milligan
 
 and
 
  Christa Faust
 
 and the
 
  artist known as ACO
 
 — there are other newcomers to the field trying to rupture the mold of comic books publishing. TKO Studios, which
 
  announced itself in December
 
 , plans to binge-release its mini-series, simultaneously selling collected editions of those stories and offering the first issue of each comic free. AHOY Comics, which began publishing in September, is more old school, but it is trying new things: It includes extra material — prose stories, cartoons, even a crossword — in its issues, and is also publishing
 
  Second Coming
 
 , a comic book featuring Jesus Christ, in July.


 AWA has its own biblical title, Archangel 8, which is written by Michael Moreci and is about one of God’s angels who goes rogue.


 To help shape the comics, the publisher has a creative council, which includes the screenwriter and director Reginald Hudlin, the novelists
 
  Margaret Stohl
 
 and
 
  Gregg Hurwitz
 
 , the comic book writer
 
  Garth Ennis
 
 and J. Michael Straczynski, a screenwriter and co-creator of Netflix’s “Sense8.”

 Straczynski took a sabbatical from comics about three years ago, but kept busy working on multiple projects: an
 
  autobiography
 
 , a novel and a screenplay, adapting his
 
  Rising Stars comic book series
 
 for MGM. “I was open to returning to comics if the project was something challenging, so when Bill and Axel approached me about creating an entirely new, cohesive, shared comic-book universe, the prospect was too much fun to resist,” he wrote in an email. Straczynski has developed the origin point of AWA’s superheroes.

 He has worked for comic companies with different publishing models. At DC and Marvel, “you always kind of know where the guard rails are,” he noted, including an obligation to bend, but not break the characters. With creator-owned work, “you can go as far as you want, since only you bear the consequences if you mess it up,” he wrote. Straczynski was drawn to the blended approach of AWA. “You get to create a new universe for what has every opportunity to become a major company, while taking real chances.”


 In developing AWA’s superhero universe, Straczynski and Alonso took a broad look at others. Straczynski postulated that DC’s heroes, which generally emerged out of the postwar ’40s, were largely authority figures, while Marvel’s, which mostly emerged from the ’60s, were anti-establishment. “Who are we writing our stories about, and for, and what are we trying to say that’s relevant to a contemporary audience?” he wrote.


 AWA has big ambitions and hopes to create a library of material like that of Marvel. “I think it’s fairly safe to say that Marvel is the most valuable entertainment franchise in the world,” Miller said. After the Netflix deal, he wondered if there were similar opportunities. He and Jemas got together, and Alonso soon joined them. “One of the great things about doing things this way is that you get to try a lot. Some things will hit, you never know when and where, but that’s part of the idea,” he said. “As long as you keep getting your turns at bat, then you’ll get some hits.”

 An earlier version of this article misidentified Bill Jemas’s role at Marvel. He was chief operating officer and publisher, not a vice president.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Mike Ives
  
 
 and
 
  Muktita Suhartono
 

 HONG KONG — An Instagram account featuring a comic strip with gay Muslim characters disappeared on Wednesday, days after Indonesian officials threatened to block the entire social media platform in the country because of an uproar over the comic’s content.


 The episode is the latest flash point in a slow-burning battle over morality and civil rights in Indonesia, a Muslim-majority nation. Even as gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people in the country assert themselves, others support an ascendant Islamic movement that has embraced some homophobic policies and portrayed L.G.B.T. people as a threat to national harmony.


 The Instagram account, @Alpantuni, first appeared in January with the tagline “Gay Muslim comics for people who are able to think.” Its Indonesian-language comics addressed gay identity and religious bigotry, and depicted men with their shirts off and in bed together, though never fully nude.


 The account prompted a flurry of criticism on social media in the country, with some accusing the artist of pornography or blasphemy.

 “God created humans as man and woman, a couple, and there is no third sex,” Muhyiddin Junaidi, a representative of the
 
  Council of Ulemas
 
 , a quasi-governmental body of Muslim scholars, said in a telephone interview.


 “For us, being L.G.B.T. is a psychological illness that needs to be cured, and this comic is promoting it,” he added. “That will ruin the people’s faith in the long term.”


 Indonesia’s Information Ministry sent Instagram a letter on Feb. 2 asking the company to remove the account, arguing that it violated an Indonesian law on distributing pornography, said Ferdinandus Setu, a ministry spokesman. He said the ministry had also threatened to shut Instagram down in Indonesia if it did not comply with the request.


 Mr. Setu said that the post was removed early on Wednesday and that Instagram had taken down an account with a nearly identical name a few weeks earlier, at the ministry’s request.


 But Instagram said on Wednesday that it had decided not remove the @Alpantuni account, which had nearly 6,000 followers, after determining that it had not violated the company’s “
 
  community guidelines
 
 .”
 

 “There are a number of other reasons why an account may no longer be accessible, including, for example, if the account holder deleted the account, deactivated the account or changed the account user name,” said Ching Yee Wong, the company’s head of Asia-Pacific communications.


 Instagram did not respond to a question about whether it had previously taken down accounts with similar names, and the owner of the @Alpantuni account could not be reached for comment.


 There was speculation that the account might be based in nearby Malaysia.


 Among other suggestions, Instagram’s community guidelines instruct users to refrain from posting nudity and to “always follow the law.” The company said on Wednesday that people should report Instagram content that violates the guidelines or “makes them feel uncomfortable.”


 News of the ministry’s letter to Instagram was
 
  first reported in English
 
 on Tuesday by
 
  Coconuts Jakarta
 
 , a branch of a news outlet that covers parts of Southeast Asia.


 Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim-majority country, has an ethnically diverse population of 260 million people, about 90 percent of them Muslim.


 A longstanding — if grudging — tolerance for homosexuality in the country began to erode in 2016, when the authorities, under pressure from right-wing Islamic groups, began
 
  arresting gay men in record numbers
 
 .


 In 2017, two men accused of having sex with each other in Aceh, a semiautonomous Indonesian province that has imposed a strict version of Shariah law, were
 
  sentenced to 85 lashes in public
 
 .

 And last year, a town in West Sumatra Province passed a law criminalizing what it called “immoral acts” between same sex-couples and prohibited residents from cross-dressing.


 The recent spike in such legislation may reflect a growing recognition by some Indonesian politicians that they can win popular support by
 
  appealing to hard-line Islamic sentiment
 
 . The country is preparing for a
 
  presidential election in April
 
 , and some fear a return of the sectarian intolerance that marred the last such vote in 2014.


 As of Wednesday afternoon, the @Alpantuni site was dormant, but other Instagram users were reposting its comics.


 Some characters in the comics are criticized by others as “stupid,” “uncivilized” and “godless” for being gay. The Coconuts report said that the comments on the strip’s Instagram account were “overwhelmingly hateful (and a pretty accurate reflection of the L.G.B.T. haters depicted in the comic itself).”


 One critic wrote, “If you want to be a Muslim, don’t be gay.”


 “It’s your right to be godless, but do not be both Muslim and gay,” wrote another. “That is just greedy.”

 Mike Ives reported from Hong Kong, and Muktita Suhartono from Bangkok.








 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Sketchbook | Graphic Review


 The graphic novelist Box Brown looks at the government report that anticipated our current debates about the legalization of weed.


 By
 
 
  Box Brown
 

 Box Brown is the author of “Andre the Giant: Life and Legend,” “Tetris”
 
 
 and, most recently, “Cannabis: The Illegalization of Weed in America.”


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Instagram
  
 
 
  , sign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Neil Genzlinger
  
 

 Brody Stevens, a jarring comic who turned his own struggles with depression into a Comedy Central television series, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 48.


 The Los Angeles County medical examiner-coroner’s office ruled the death a suicide.


 Mr. Stevens was well known in the stand-up world, especially on the West Coast, as well as to studio audiences of shows like “Chelsea Lately” and “The Burn With Jeff Ross.” For those shows he was the warm-up comedian, whose job was to get the audience in a laughing mood before taping began.


 
  His stand-up style
 
 was a seemingly contradictory mix of confrontation and self-deprecation. He would often mock the fact that he was not a household name and had managed to land only small parts in television shows and movies.


 “I was in the ‘Hangovers,’ ” he joked in a favorite routine. “‘Hangover 1’: In it. ‘Hangover 2’: In it. ‘Due Date’: In it. ‘Funny People’: I got cut out of that.”

 Onstage he raced quickly through a wide array of subject matter, going deeper and darker than comfort-food comedians. When his audiences responded with nervous half-laughs or silence, he would turn on them with something on the edge of genuine hostility.


 “You should be giving me laughs based on cadence alone” was one of his favorite lines for berating a crowd. “I scratch your back, you shave mine.”

 He was widely admired by other comedians for his willingness to venture into unsafe territory.


 “Brody never seems like he’s doing material at all,” Sarah Silverman once said. “He’s just yelling.”


 She gave that assessment in the premiere episode of “Brody Stevens: Enjoy It!,” a biographical documentary series (based on an earlier HBO web series) broadcast on Comedy Central in 2013 and 2014. Among the things it examined was a disturbing period in which Mr. Stevens stopped taking his anti-anxiety medications and went on a days-long sleep-deprived rant, much of it blasted in a stream of Twitter messages and videos. The behavior so alarmed his friends — especially when he tweeted that he had a gun — that they called the authorities, and Mr. Stevens was committed for psychiatric treatment.

 “They diagnosed me here at the U.C.L.A. psych ward with a bipolar disorder,” he said in Episode 2 of “Enjoy It!”


 “I don’t want it to make who I am,” he added, “ ‘I’m the guy who had this breakdown.’ But I’ll talk about it, and be real, learn from it, help others learn from it, and then move on.”


 Mr. Stevens was born Steven James Brody to Harold and Jackie Brody on May 22, 1970, in California’s San Fernando Valley. His parents divorced when he was young.


 He played baseball at Reseda High School and received a scholarship to Arizona State University, where he was a pitcher. His love of baseball continued past his playing days, and he was a frequent visitor to spring training camps.


 He honed his stand-up skills in Seattle, where he also had a public-access TV show, then returned to the Los Angeles area. The actor and producer Zach Galifianakis became a close friend and, with Mike Gibbons, created “Enjoy It!,” which ran for 12 episodes. Another theme of that show was Mr. Stevens’s strained relationship with his sister, Stephanie.


 Information on his survivors was not immediately available.


 Mr. Stevens, who in recent years went by the name Steven Brody Stevens, also hosted audio and video podcasts. On Twitter, the comedian John Roy recalled an industry show in which a number of comics performed for hard-to-amuse agents. The crowd, he said, was comatose until Mr. Stevens took the stage and virtually demanded laughs, finally loosening things up.


 “He gave that gift to every comic that came after him that night,” Mr. Roy wrote. “That’s why he was such a master at warming up TV shows. He simply refused to accept that audiences could not be made to laugh, and he threw every thought and instinct he had at that problem until it was solved.”

 If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources.
 
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 The cartoonist
 
  Stan Sakai
 
 and his 17th-century samurai rabbit, Usagi Yojimbo, are about to embark on new, colorful adventures, with a monthly series starting in June with a new publisher, IDW.


 
  IDW Publishing
 
 is also planning a series of full-colored collected editions of the complete Usagi saga, which began in 1984. The series had been at
 
  Dark Horse Comics
 
 since 1995 and was primarily printed in black-and-white.


 Sakai, 65, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that the series is “mainly fantasy and action and adventure, but there’s a lot of teaching there, too,” as it is set in an anthropomorphic version of 17th-century Japan. “I draw from that history and culture and folklore to make my stories,” he said.

 Previous installments have shown the craftsmanship of forging swords, the construction of massive paper kites and examined the role of Christian missionaries who went to Japan. The new series, which will be colored by
 
  Tom Luth
 
 , will begin with a three-part story involving bunraku (Japanese puppetry).

 The Usagi Yojimbo has a rabid following and is critically acclaimed. The site Comics Alliance ran an article, “
 
  What’s So Great About Usagi Yojimbo? Everything
 
 ,” remarking on the consistency and craftsmanship of the series, down to characters’ deaths: their last breaths are expressed by showing a skull in their word balloons. (There have been ample opportunities to hone this motif thanks to a high occurrence of fatalities in the ongoing tale).


 
  [Check out our
 
 
  
   Culture Calendar here
  
 
 
  .]
 


 The series has also won five
 
  Eisner Awards
 
 , the industry equivalent of an Oscar, including three for best lettering. In 1996 Sakai was awarded an Eisner for Talent Deserving of Wider Recognition and, three years later, he received one for Best Serialized Story.


 Sakai hopes to continue the adventures of Usagi for many more years. “I have no other job skills,” he said with a laugh. “If not for Usagi, I’m unemployed.”







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Jesse Green
  
 

 Dear Simon Branson: Today is going to be a good day, and here’s why.


 Oh wait, wrong show.


 But a person could be forgiven for momentarily confusing “
 
  Superhero
 
 ,” the new musical about a withdrawn teenager and his anxious mother, with “
 
  Dear Evan Hansen
 
 ,” the hit musical about a withdrawn teenager and his anxious mother.


 It’s not just that the boys’ names scan so similarly. Or that both shows are about fatherless families: Evan’s the result of divorce; Simon’s the result of an accident. The opening songs (“
 
  Anybody Have a Map?
 
 ” in “Dear Evan Hansen” and “
 
  What’s Happening to My Boy?
 
 ” in “Superhero”) have nearly identical emotional setups, including nearly identical phrases about mothers finding their way back to their sons.


 More fundamentally, both “Superhero” and “Dear Evan Hansen” show how damaged people try to use stories, whether fictional or outright false, to rebuild themselves after trauma — and how they may create new traumas in the process.

 There, alas, the resemblance ends, because “Superhero,” which opened on Thursday at
 
  Second Stage Theater
 
 , in a production directed by Jason Moore, is a misfire. Authors with golden track records for serious work (the songs are by
 
  Tom Kitt
 
 ; the book, by
 
  John Logan
 
 ) have somehow created a musical so lugubrious and underpowered that it never gets off the ground.

 The problem is built into the low-stakes, high-whimsy concept. The 15-year-old Simon (Kyle McArthur) is not a spectacular social media liar like Evan; he is merely an aficionado and amateur author of comic books, hooked on their tales of rescue. They allow him to imagine characters, like the Amazing Sea-Mariner, who “can heal the world’s suffering and pain” — if only in his sketchbook.


 In the real world, he feels isolated at a new school and smothered at home by his worried mother, Charlotte (
 
  Kate Baldwin
 
 ). He’d like a girlfriend but is too shy even to defend his dynamic schoolmate Vee (Salena Qureshi) when an ex tries to bully her.


 These are not exactly shattering — or shatteringly original — problems. Despite Mr. McArthur’s angsty singing, Simon basically comes off as a nice boy with a big imagination and, for a high school sophomore, few objections to setting the table.


 It’s Charlotte who isn’t coping well. (Piling on the pathos, Mr. Logan tells us she is named for the title character of “Charlotte’s Web.”) An assistant professor of English, she has worked only intermittently in the two years since her husband’s death, holing up instead in a new apartment after moving from the family’s more comfortable home. It is evidently meant as some kind of irony that she is a specialist in
 
  the Romantic poet John Clare
 
 but cannot imagine resuming a romantic life of her own.

 [
 
  What’s new onstage and off:
 
 
  
   Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter
  
 
 
  .
 
 ]


 I will not spoil how “Superhero” manages to tie both Simon’s and Charlotte’s stories together with that of the man in apartment 4B. He is Jim (
 
  Bryce Pinkham
 
 ), a shy bus driver with a big secret and dreamy blue eyes. Let’s just say that accepting his role in the proceedings requires an almost-literal
 
  willing suspension of disbelief
 
 .


 I was unwilling. Not even as allegory could the fantastical adventure that swallows the second act sustain my interest; its concerns are sketchy, as thin as comic book stock. Despite spending so much energy hammering the unlikely plot into place, Mr. Logan, author of the Tony Award-winning “
 
  Red
 
 ” and the screenplay for Tim Burton’s “
 
  Sweeney Todd
 
 ,” has not created characters who connect his overworked variations on superhero conventions convincingly to real behavior.

 Nor, to my surprise, do Mr. Kitt’s songs enrich the storytelling the way they did in “
 
  Next to Normal
 
 ” and “
 
  If/Then
 
 .” The music does at times prove effective in setting scenes; the first sounds we hear are a heroic horn call delightfully referencing
 
  John Williams’s theme for “Superman,”
 
 albeit with just one horn.


 But if the orchestrations, by Mr. Kitt and Michael Starobin, are atypically wan, Mr. Kitt’s lyrics are even wanner. Perhaps that’s because “Superhero” is the first of his musicals for which he has also written the words. They seem as withdrawn as Simon, not wanting to call attention to themselves with anything but the mushiest phrases and most reticent rhymes — a timidity that lets the ear write them off as unimportant.


 That Ms. Baldwin nevertheless makes a great deal and a great meal of them is a sign of her tremendous stage intelligence. A should-have-been musical star who recently graduated to second bananahood (
 
  she was a luscious Irene Molloy
 
 in “Hello, Dolly!”), she seems to create a full-color story for each pale lyric, then spin it out on ribbons of unimpeachable sound. Even outside the songs, her characterization is the most convincing thing in the show, and her purely nonallegorical scenes with Mr. Pinkham, also in fine voice, are the most satisfying beyond their washes of purpleness.


 But it does not grant much to “Superhero” to say that its leads manage to rise above it. Or to say that Mr. Moore (also the director of “
 
  Avenue Q
 
 ” and “
 
  The Cher Show
 
 ”) keeps it moving swiftly on
 
  Beowulf Boritt
 
 ’s set, which encloses the action in a receding series of six tilted comic book frames that force your perspective but feel nearly empty.

 I fear this is a problem we’ll be seeing a lot of in the post-“Dear Evan Hansen” world. Psychological musicals, in which interior landscapes are foregrounded and characters sing soliloquies that can easily devolve into clichés, are extremely difficult to pull off. “Dear Evan Hansen” succeeds because its songs are so sharply pointed and its emotional life is convincingly bonded to an ingenious, almost inevitable plot.


 Without that — without a tough skin of credible story and clear reasons to sing — shows like “Superhero,” however glorious their provenance and whoever comes to their rescue, are never going to fly.

 This information was last updated on
 
  March 6, 2019
 

 
  Follow Jesse Green on Twitter:
  
   @JesseKGreen
  
  .
 







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 On Comedy


 By
 
 
  
   Jason Zinoman
  
 

 If Dave Attell ever retires, as he has
 
  periodically hinted for years,
 
 what will become of club comedy?


 Comics will still work clubs, of course. But in an era when the savvy career move is to diversify into podcasts and video while playing a variety of rooms, Attell, 54, is the rare elite stand-up who advertises himself, with a mixture of pride and self-deprecation, as
 
  simply a club comic
 
 . More important: No one alive makes a better argument for the aesthetic of New York club comedy, with its tussling crowd work, quick setups and ruthless punch lines that go for the gut.


 For 32 years, he has performed nearly every night of the week, making him a longer-running fixture in this city than “The Phantom of the Opera,” and one that has aged better, although you might not know it at first glance.


 On a cold weeknight this month at the Comedy Cellar, where he often appears on the late show, he walked onstage looking rumpled, sporting a baggy winter coat and a headwear situation that resembled a Russian nesting doll: After removing a hoodie that covered his customary black baseball cap, which he took off to reveal yet another hat, he began his set with a knowing quip: “I look like I just came here to get warm.”

 Attell has been describing himself like this for decades. “I have a gym in my building,” he said in
 
  his 1996 HBO half-hour
 
 . “Does anyone else live in the Y?”


 Attell actually has had a successful showbiz career, which includes host of cult shows on Comedy Central (“Insomniac”) and Showtime (“Dave’s Old Porn”), along with brief stints on “The Daily Show” and “Saturday Night Live.” But he’s more revered by peers than the public. He has never put out specials as frequently as he could have. His easygoing double act,
 
  “Bumping Mics”
 
 with Jeff Ross, which debuted last fall on Netflix, was his first release since 2014.


 What Attell does best doesn’t lead to fame and fortune these days. It’s not just that he’s an old-school performer in a media landscape biased toward novelty and provocation. Making noise in the crowded comedy scene today means going personal, political or controversial. Attell generally avoids all three. You can watch him for hours and learn next to nothing about his life or his deepest convictions outside an abiding faith in punchy jokes.


 He has one of the quickest minds in comedy, and gently insulting audiences is critical to his act, adding tension, unpredictability and a change of pace. At a terrific 90-minute or so show in December at Caroline’s, where I sat in the front row, he treated me like a speed bag, jabbing me with punch lines about my glasses (“Isaac Asimov’s grandson”), posture (“Stephen Hawking’s stunt double”) and snack-food preference. When I said rice cracker, he responded, “What’s your favorite porn — homework?”


 At his core, Attell is a high-octane, no-frills joke machine, a delivery system for punch lines, some improvised, but a vast majority rigorously honed. With a compulsive work ethic, he tests the same jokes for years, tweaking words repeatedly to find the funniest sound. He doesn’t add many act-outs to sell a line or weave bits into a story to build comic momentum. If you transcribe his jokes and read them aloud flatly, they remain funny.

 His comedy doesn’t carry a message, but it does have a specific mood and texture that has shifted over the years. He built his reputation on a dirty and dissolute image, focusing on sex toys, drinking and ornate literary descriptions of testicles. (My favorite might be when he compared them to a “tent no one knows how to fold up.”)


 If you listen closely to his 2014 Comedy Central special, “Road Work,” you can hear the roots of some of the button-pushing humor of Louis C.K., albeit in quicker form. “Ever do a bunch of mushrooms, think you’re having a pillow fight, but it turns out to be a live baby,” goes one joke.


 Attell isn’t as raunchy as he once was. As he has gotten older, he has added more jokes about food and pets. He will still predict how a night might end for audience members based on what they’re drinking, but now that he’s sober, there aren’t as many punch lines about Jägermeister.


 He has his off nights, and his crowd work can be tentative. (Jeff Ross is a good match, prodding him to take more risks.) But there are moments when I see Attell perform that I think he is only now entering his prime, something this famously self-critical comic would probably disagree with.


 Stick around long enough, and you acquire a certain gravitas, no matter how ragged and unpretentious you may be. Attell is far too wedded to the economical structure of hard jokes to veer off into the poetic flourishes of Dave Chappelle, and he seems to have little interest in waging culture wars.


 But see him perform enough, and a theme emerges: close attention paid to the lonely and overlooked figures of our society, particularly in an unforgiving city. He has a wonderful bit imagining the guy who sells fruit on Sixth Avenue at 4 a.m. and another extended metaphor in which he pictures himself carrying a lantern through a thick fog, saying “fog things” like “Friend or foe?”

 His material has the landscape of a Tom Waits song, crusty and cynical, inspiring bleak laughter that sounds as if it might turn into a cough at any moment. Attell has built a comic world that perfectly fits the character he has long played onstage, one with a past he can plumb for a few extra laughs.


 Around midnight at the Comedy Cellar another night this month, Attell invited his audience to imagine the loneliness of a worker making Subway sandwiches in an empty restaurant. After setting the scene more economically than I have, with him waiting for his food, he describes watching this employee and deciding to make “his smallest dream come true.”


 With a conspiratorial glance to one side, he said, “Take the gloves off.” Then he hit the audience with two more punch lines, instructing this sad sack to live his best life. “Raw dog it. Put the mayonnaise wherever you want.”


 Like New York itself, Dave Attell is not as dirty as he used to be, but he can still make a joke about cold cuts sound deliriously filthy.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Seb Emina
 

 ANGOULÊME, France — It’s a big year for comic book anniversaries. Batman’s 80th is this year, and Asterix is turning 60. But at the Angoulême International Comics Festival in France, which finished on Sunday, there was a sense that the form’s best days may be yet to come — in the French-speaking world, at least.


 “It’s a kind of golden age,” said Jean-Luc Fromental, a comic book author who also runs a graphic-novel imprint for the publisher Denoël. “There has never been so much talent. There have never been so many interesting books published.”


 There are now more comic books published annually in France and Belgium than ever before, according to the festival’s artistic director, Stéphane Beaujean. “The market has risen from 700 books per year in the 1990s to 5,000 this year,” he said in an interview. “I don’t know any cultural industry which has had that kind of increase.”

 Research by the market research company GfK, released to coincide with the festival, showed that turnover in the comic book industry in those two countries alone reached 510 million euros, or around $580 million, in 2018.

 The bumper year in France and Belgium contrasts with a mixed situation worldwide. Comichron, a website that reports on comic book sales in the United States, where the market is worth around $1 billion, says that sales there are declining.


 But in terms of respect and recognition, comics are on the way up. In July, “Sabrina,” by the American artist Nick Drnaso, became
 
  the first graphic novel to be nominated for the Man Booker Prize
 
 , Britain’s most prestigious literary award. “March: Book Three,” a graphic novel about the civil rights movement, won the National Book Award for Young People’s Literature in 2016.


 In Angoulême, a city about 450 kilometers, or 280 miles, southwest of Paris, comic books aren’t merely an annual preoccupation. Visitors arriving by train are greeted outside the station by an obelisk honoring René Goscinny, one of the creators of Asterix. There’s a comics museum, and a comics library.


 The festival, spread out in venues across the city, featured comic books on just about every conceivable subject — the life of Jules Verne, the wines of Burgundy, erotic stories set in space, even one whose
 
  main character is a gym sock
 
 . The St.-Martial church was repurposed as a shop specializing in comic book titles for Christian readers, whether modern spiritual tales or retellings of Bible stories.

 The Angoulême event is unusual in its embrace of comics from around the world, including, but not limited to, those from the three traditions that dominate the form here: French-Belgian, American and Japanese manga. “It’s the only place in the world where you can see all the comics created in the world,” said Beaujean, who this year has doubled the size of an area where publishers can buy rights to international titles.

 Books featuring classic characters like Donald Duck, Wonder Woman and Tintin were available in both freshly-printed form and as secondhand rarities. And while occasional encounters with men in superhero outfits are unavoidable at an event like this, Angoulême has a very different atmosphere from its American counterparts such as Comic-Con.


 “In America, it’s about the pop culture, which would include everything from Marvel movies to Lego,” said the American comic book artist Terry Moore, the author of a 26-year-old series, “Strangers in Paradise.” “In France, I’m seeing that it’s about books, books, books,” he said.


 On Saturday, France’s culture minister, Franck Riester, gave a speech comparing the event’s role in the world of comics to that of the Cannes Film Festival in cinema, and Jean-Michel Blanquer, the education minister, visited on Thursday. The attendance by government officials underscored the way the “ninth art,” as comic books are sometimes referred to in France, is not a niche pursuit but a mainstream activity.


 The Angoulême festival announces a number of prizes each year, their recipients chosen by fellow comics artists. This year, for the first time, women won both of the festival’s biggest awards. A jury of seven artists selected the debut graphic novel by the American author Emil Ferris, “My Favorite Thing Is Monsters,” as winner of the Fauve d’Or, or Golden Wildcat award, for the year’s best book.


 The Japanese Manga artist Rumiko Takahashi won the Grand Prix, the festival’s lifetime achievement award. Takahashi began publishing manga comics in 1978 and her books, including “Inuyasha,” about a time-traveling schoolgirl, have sold more than 200 million copies. She is only the second woman to win the prize.

 Angoulême is a cornerstone of the comics industry in France and Belgium, but some in the field say the exuberant headlines conceal a more complex picture. A common refrain is that the huge increase in titles has meant that, while there’s more money in the industry, there are also a greater number of authors grasping for a share of it.


 Benoît Peeters, an author of comic books who has also written a biography of the philosopher Jacques Derrida, said in an interview that despite the increase in overall readership, “the sales of each book, except for those like Asterix and manga, are going down.”


 Peeters founded an organization called
 
  The General State of Comics
 
 to lobby publishers and the French government to defend the interests of comic book artists.


 He said that publishers were hedging their bets by signing up for too many books, with smaller titles often receiving inadequate support as a result. “I think the publishers need to make some choices,” he said. “When they choose a book they have to defend it and promote it.”


 But in France, at least, comic books were taken seriously as an art form, Peeters said. “When I was a young author I came from a more literary world,” he said. “People said, ‘What are you doing with comics? You are a clever person. You should work with movies or literature.’ Now, nobody would say that.”





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  On Comedy
 


 By
 
 
  
   Jason Zinoman
  
 

 The comic Jaboukie Young-White has a bit examining which bugs are gay.


 Bees worship a queen, so of course. Ladybugs, he says, are clearly all lesbians. And when it comes to ants, he flashes a pensive look, his sleepy eyes opening wider as he asks, “You’re working
 
  so
 
 hard — what are you hiding?”


 Then Young-White, 24, pauses, waiting for the joke to sink in. Typically, he moves from punch line to punch line with pace, but the two times I have seen him tell this one, he went silent as the laughter built. It’s a veteran move from a relative newcomer: When a joke glances off its target, as opposed to thumping it, he holds the silence to let you know the laugh is there if you look for it.


 In the season premiere of the
 
  HBO series “Crashing,”
 
 on Sunday, Young-White plays a version of himself, a precocious comic with a herky-jerky delivery whom the star, Pete Holmes, persuades to come to New York, where he helps him gain entree to the club scene. But it’s a sign of how rapidly Young-White has risen that this plotline seems dated. Only a few months after he started work on “The Daily Show” in October, he headlined at Caroline’s, selling out five shows. It might not have seemed like it when “Crashing” hired him, but right now that series probably benefits from his glow more than the other way around.

 While he hasn’t made a Netflix special, it’s probably only a matter of time, since Young-White, who has had nearly as much success writing (the Netflix series “Big Mouth” and “American Vandal”) as doing stand-up, has already developed the building blocks of a killer debut: sharp introductory jokes about his look and name (the stand-up version of a series pilot setting the scene), a clearly defined point of view that balances the prickly with the ingratiating, and an effortless star charisma that cannot be taught.

 But it’s his craftsmanship that might be most impressive. He deftly delivers a punch line, but he’s even better at setting up a premise, careful not to get ahead of his audience, establishing the idea with the patience and conviction of a Broadway pro crying on cue years into a run.


 The first indication that he was an unusually assured stand-up was his 2017 debut on “The Tonight Show,” where he opened with a joke about how, racially, he’s perceived differently from city to city. “When I’m in Chicago, people just think I’m half black, half white. When I’m in New York, people think that I’m Puerto Rican. But when I’m in CVS, everyone thinks I’m stealing.” Another long pause, over 10 seconds, as the crowd applauds, before he pivots: “It’s really frustrating, because I am.”


 The joke established the perspective of a comic who pokes fun at racial pigeonholes and stereotypes while also being occasionally willing to play into them. “I don’t want to be the kind of comic who says black people are like this and white people are like that,” he said at one show, before doing just that.


 In his first “Tonight Show” set, he also came out to his parents as gay. But it wasn’t only what he was saying that telegraphed an impressive ambition. It was his choice of clothes, a red leather jacket, nodding to
 
  the famous suit in “Delirious,”
 
 the breakthrough special of Eddie Murphy, then in his early 20s, perhaps the most spectacularly successful of all the stand-up prodigies.

 Whereas Murphy began his career with jokes that presented gay men as silly, strange or even dangerous, Young-White is more likely to speak of a heterosexual couple as something alien. (“You’ve heard of those? It’s when a man and woman fall in love and go to Ikea.”) But he’s also not above telling a derivative joke.


 Explaining how he is addicted to his phone, he describes a mugger asking him: “Is your phone worth your life?”

 Young-White stares blankly: “I thought, Hmmm.”


 Comedy nerds will notice the echo of Jack Benny’s classic joke about his own frugality. When a
 
  stickup artist demands, “Your money or your life!,” Benny answers, “I’m thinking it over!”
 


 But as much as originality matters in stand-up, its importance is easy to exaggerate. As with magic tricks or story structures, there is a limited number of kinds of new jokes, but an infinite variety of ways to pull them off. What Young-White has done is update Benny for millennial comedy, leaning on a classic joke form to serve the perspective of a young person who lives much of his life staring at a screen.

 On “The Daily Show,” he also leans into jokes about his age, playing the part of the Senior Youth Correspondent. But his sharpest social commentary is filtered through a personal prism. In between punch lines, Young-White narrates his own story, giving the audience a clear sense of his background, describing his Jamaican family with two brothers (one straight, one bisexual) growing up in Chicago where he was taught sex education by nuns in a Catholic school. As an adult, he lived in that city with seven roommates, including an actual gay man living in a closet (the setup to one of his better punch lines) before moving to Los Angeles just long enough to develop a loathing of it to bring to New York.


 His stories position him as a struggling outsider, but not in a way that invites sympathy. Young-White can be cutting, but it’s always with a smile and an eye roll. There’s a carefree attitude to his comedy, a sense that even when faced with the most difficult or prejudiced situation, he can escape with a quick gibe. He has several stories about confrontations with homophobes, including one on a subway and another on Twitter, but they end with his defeating them with his quick wit.


 When discussing his father’s lashing out after learning his son was gay, Young-White does not treat the event as overly dramatic. In his telling, he doesn’t return fire or build up the significance of the exchange. Instead, his response to his father is more unexpected, a kind of glib irritation: “You’re being
 
  such
 
 a queen right now,” he tells his dad, in a sing-songy voice. “This is kind of my moment.”


 It certainly is.

 An earlier version of this article misstated the season-premiere date of the HBO series “Crashing.” It is Sunday, not Saturday.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement


 
  By
  
   WEIYI CAI
  
  ,
 
 
  
   ALLISON MCCANN
  
  and
 
 
  
   JUGAL K. PATEL
  
 
 
  
   UPDATED
  
  MARCH 21, 2019
 




 Africa


 Mozambique


 Cyclone Idai


 A tropical cyclone struck Mozambique and several other countries in southern Africa late last Thursday, causing widespread flooding and destruction across the southeast corner of the continent. The port city of Beira in Mozambique was hit hardest, with many homes destroyed.


 Reino


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Manga


 Beira


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Villa Arriage


 Areas that flooded
 
 


 over the past week


 Bandua


 Cyclone


 Idai


 MOZAMBIQUE


 5 miles


 Area


 shown


 Reino


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Manga


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Villa Arriage


 Beira


 Areas that


 flooded
 
  over
 


 the past week


 Bandua


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Area


 shown


 5 miles


 Reino


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Manga


 Villa Arriage


 Beira


 Areas that


 flooded
 
  over
 


 the past week


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Bandua


 Area


 shown


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Beira


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Areas that flooded
 
 


 over the past week


 Area


 shown


 At least 242 people have been killed in Mozambique, 139 people in Zimbabwe and 56 people in Malawi, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. Aid organizations said those figures could rise drastically as rescuers reach previously inaccessible areas.


 The floodwaters from the cyclone, called Idai, could have reached almost 20 feet deep, according to Matthew Cochrane, a spokesman for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
 
  Thousands
 
 
  have been displaced
 
 by the storm, and President Filipe Nyusi of Mozambique said the death toll there could climb to more than 1,000.


 The storm made landfall about two weeks ago near Quelimane, a city about 190 miles northeast of Beira, as a tropical depression with torrential rain. Wind speeds were only around 40 miles per hour, and after a few days, the storm changed course and moved back into the ocean.


 Max. wind speed


 37-56 m.p.h


 56-75


 &gt;75


 Mozambique


 Malawi


 March 9


 8 a.m.


 Saturday


 2 p.m.


 Wednesday


 8 p.m.


 Friday


 2 a.m.


 Zimbabwe


 Beira


 Madagascar


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Populated


 areas


 South


 Africa


 150 milies


 Maputo


 Mozambique


 Malawi


 Zambia


 March 9


 8 a.m.


 Saturday


 2 p.m.


 Friday


 2 a.m.


 Wednesday


 8 p.m.


 Zimbabwe


 Beira


 Madagascar


 Botswana


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Populated areas


 South


 Africa


 150 milies


 Maputo


 Mozambique


 Saturday


 2 p.m.


 March 9


 8 a.m.


 Friday


 2 a.m.


 Zimbabwe


 Beira


 Populated


 areas


 Mozambique


 Channel


 200 milies


 Maputo


 Over the past week, the storm rapidly strengthened — wind speeds picked up to about 70 miles per hour as the storm headed back in the direction of Mozambique.


 On Thursday night, the cyclone struck Mozambique for a second time. This time, however, the storm barreled toward Beira, Mozambique’s fourth-largest city, with winds over 100 miles per hour and more than seven inches of rain. The storm moved inland, devastating parts of Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe.


 Imagery of Beira provided by the International Federation of Red Cross showed the extent of the damage in the city’s center on Friday.


 The storm destroyed “90 percent” of Beira, a city of about a half-million people, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said on Monday.


 Aerial footage showed people huddled on dry areas, waiting to be rescued. Mr. Nyusi said that overflowing rivers had submerged villages and isolated communities. He reported seeing floating bodies.


 Advertisement


 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 BURNLEY, England, — Chris Wood scored twice as Burnley virtually assured Premier League safety with a 2-0 win over fellow strugglers Cardiff City on Saturday which left the Welsh club deep in relegation trouble and their manager Neil Warnock fuming.


 Cardiff, occupying the final relegation slot in 18th place, are on 28 points, five behind 17th-placed Brighton with five games remaining. Burnley, who have won three in a row, move up to 14th place on 39 points -- 11 ahead of Cardiff.


 But for the large travelling Welsh support the game will be remembered for a second half penalty incident when, with the score at 1-0 to Burnley, referee Mike Dean changed his mind after initially pointing to the spot.


 New Zealander Wood, who had struck the post in the second minute, put the Clarets in front in the 31st minute with a fine header from a Dwight McNeil corner.

 Burnley then had several chances to add to their lead with Cardiff keeper Neil Etheridge twice doing well to keep out shots from Clarets midfielder Ashley Westwood.


 Just before the break, Burnley's Ashley Barnes was booked after a confrontation with Joe Bennett where he appeared to kiss the Cardiff defender on the nose.


 Cardiff came out strongly after the interval and thought they had a great chance to level three minutes into the second half when they were initially awarded a penalty for a handball by Ben Mee.


 The linesman's flag was raised after Mee headed the ball at his own hand and Dean responded by pointing to the spot.


 But after consulting with his assistant Darren Cann, Dean changed his mind, leading to angry protests from the Cardiff players and sighs of relief from the home crowd.

 "Mike must have seen something to go over and we're gutted really. I think Darren made the right decision and Mike has talked him out of it," said Warnock.


 Junior Hoilett then wasted a great chance for Cardiff, blasting high over the bar after being found unmarked inside the area.


 Burnley made sure of the win in stoppage time when Wood added his second goal, nodding home from close range after a winding run from winger McNeil whose low cross was clipped into the air by the sliding Bruno Manga.


 The win means Burnley could be mathematically safe before their next game at Chelsea on Easter Monday but manager Sean Dyche was wary of assuming survival was now guaranteed.


 "I don't think you talk about that because you want it factually. You can't guarantee it but I think we're in a very, very healthy position," he said.


 Warnock's side now play Brighton, who on Saturday suffered a 5-0 thrashing at home to Bournemouth, on Tuesday in a match which looks like the last chance for them to find a path away from the drop.


 (Reporting by Simon Evans; editing by Clare Fallon and Pritha Sarkar)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 The recipe and history behind the surging Instagram food trend.


 By
 
 
  Daniela Galarza
 

 The Japanese soufflé pancake seems to
 
 defy pastry physics:
 
 An airy vanilla batter is cooked in a pan, which leaves it lightly toasted on each side and cloudlike in the center. As wobbly as fresh silken tofu and served in tall stacks, each cake manages to maintain its structure, even after it’s dressed with toppings like matcha custard sauce, chewy boba pearls, fresh berries or cascades of maple syrup and melted butter.


 The pancakes are a fast-growing food trend on Instagram, where nearly 50,000 photos are tagged
 
  #soufflepancake
 
 . In addition to their attractive, springy texture and sweet, colorful toppings, there seems to be a third factor in their social media success: a long line. For the food-obsessed, a line can be like catnip. They want to taste what’s at the end of it, and posting a photo of the experience is proof that they did.


 “People love to line up,” said Karen Li Lo, one of the owners of Motto Tea Cafe in Pasadena, Calif., where soufflé pancakes are on the menu. “They like feeling like they are a part of something more.” Today, lines for pancakes can be found across the United States, and in London, where the wait for an order at the new cafe Fuwa Fuwa has been compared to purgatory.

 Their origin story is the subject of some
 
 speculation.


 “I’ve heard they’re inspired by ‘
 
 Crayon Shin-chan
 
 ,’ the Japanese cartoon,” says Sakura Yagi, the
 
 chief operating officer
 
 of T.I.C.
 
 Restaurant Group
 
 , which owns
 
  the Japanese coffeehouse Hi-Collar
 
 in the East Village. Shin-chan, a manga and anime character known for his precocious nature and mischievous humor, was popular in the 1990s. He’s a small child, but slightly plump “and jiggly,” Ms. Yagi said with a laugh, “like a soufflé pancake.”

 Hi-Collar started serving its pancakes six years ago, and Ms. Yagi likes to say they’re more of “a precursor” to the soufflé pancake. An eggy, highly aerated batter is rested, then cooked in one-inch-high ring molds on an electric griddle, which yields an exceptionally tall and fluffy mini-cake that, when poked with a fork, reacts like a small, round Tempur-Pedic mattress.


 In 2014, two shops in Osaka, Japan —
 
 Shiawase no Pancake
 
 (translated into English as a Happy Pancake) and Gram Cafe — started selling soufflé pancakes. Both cafes eventually opened outposts in Tokyo, and by 2016 their bouncy pancakes were all over Instagram. Today,
 
 Shiawase no Pancake
 
 has 26 locations, and Gram operates nearly 60; its newest location
 
  opened on Friday in San Francisco
 
 .


 Most sweet cakes cooked in pans, whether they’re
 
  South Indian
 
 or
 
  Swedish
 
 , develop a pillowy or puffy texture.
 
 But soufflé pancakes reach greater heights because they’re made from a meringue-based batter. The eggs in the recipe are separated. The yolks are mixed with flour, milk and sometimes a leavening agent like baking powder, while the whites and sugar are beaten into a stiff meringue.

 Folded together and scooped into ring molds on a frying pan (or sometimes right onto a griddle, without the ring), they stand nearly as tall and wide as a softball, and have a marshmallowlike texture because they’re cooked at a low temperature for a relatively long amount of time.

 “Ideally we want them to be at least two inches tall,” said Ms. Lo, who owns Motto Tea Cafe with
 
 Johnny Li
 
 , her
 
 brother
 
 .


 Mr. Li, who used to live in Tokyo and still visits several times a year (“I guess you can say I am obsessed with Japan,” he said), first heard of the pancakes about five years ago, and knew he wanted to bring them to Los Angeles.


 Ms. Lo developed her recipe based on the pancakes she tasted in Tokyo. But when Motto opened in 2018, sh
 
 e said, “a lot of people were confused
 
 .” They didn’t want pancakes in the afternoon, and they certainly didn’t expect to wait a long time for a dish that, at a diner or at home, takes only a few minutes to cook.

 “In Japan, people eat pancakes all day, not just in the morning,” Mr. Li said. “They’re like a snack — not breakfast.” Customers who were unfamiliar with the concept were frustrated when their order took 15 minutes to make.
 
 (That time is necessary for the pancake to cook all the way through.)

 At Taiyaki in Chinatown in Manhattan, customers
 
 have complained
 
 about the wait, which can average over an hour, leading the shop’s owners to limit pancake availability to weekends only. Some commenters on the shop’s Instagram posts beg Taiyaki’s owners to open outposts in their cities, including Austin and Miami, while others tag friends, asking them to be “pancake buddies” and wait in line together.


 And yet,
 
 according to Ms. Lo, the Japanese have moved on: The soufflé pancake is just not that
 
 big in Japan.


 “They’re more into regular pancakes now,” she said.


 Recipe:
 
  
   Japanese Soufflé Pancakes
  
 


 
  Follow
 
 
  
   NYT Food on Twitter
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   NYT Cooking on Instagram
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Pinterest
  
 
 
  .
 
 
  
   Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Seth Berkman
 

 Seven years ago, Tacko Fall and Christ Koumadje were discovered by basketball scouts in a similar fashion.


 They were hard to miss.


 On the streets of Dakar, Senegal, the two 7-footers stood out. They were spotted by employees of the Flying Star Academy, a Senegalese training ground for several basketball players who have ended up on college teams in the United States. The employees chased after the teenagers, imploring them to try their enormous hands at the sport.


 
  [Follow our live coverage of the N.C.A.A. tournament here.]
 


 At the time, Koumadje, now a 7-foot-4 senior at Florida State, preferred soccer. Fall, now a 7-foot-6 senior at Central Florida, was more interested in devouring anime and manga series like “Naruto” and “Tokyo Ghoul.” Both were, at first, indifferent to basketball.


 But their potential upside was difficult to ignore. To onlookers, they evoked thoughts of the next Hakeem Olajuwon or Yao Ming.

 Today, their size offers less promise. They toiled to become giant forces in the paint, only to watch as basketball evolved from a game that coveted height into a more freewheeling, 3-point-centric game that deems their skill sets nearly as obsolete as a fax machine: nice to have, but no longer entirely necessary.


 “What’s interesting about both, their advanced analytics, they play off the charts — well over 1 point per possession, and that’s really effective in college basketball,” said Steve Kyler, the editor and publisher of
 
  Basketball Insiders
 
 , which produces weekly N.B.A. mock drafts. “When you dig deeper, in situational-type things they grade really well, but the truth of the matter is the N.B.A. game isn’t played that way anymore. It’s all about stretch 5s, quickness.”


 “I think they may get a look on the fringe based off their size,” Kyler added. “But a guy 7-foot-6 being the first overall pick or top five is pretty rare now.”

 In the college game, where height can still create a tangible advantage, Fall and Koumadje — who are among the tallest players currently in Division I — will be crucial cogs in their teams’ N.C.A.A. tournament performance.

 Beyond that, whether they can find a place and purpose in the N.B.A. — where the only active players who stand 7-foot-3 or taller are Dallas’s Kristaps Porzingis, who has a far more diverse skill set, and Philadelphia’s Boban Marjanovic — remains to be seen.


 “Extending my range is something I definitely want to work on,” said Fall, who helped the Knights earn their first N.C.A.A. tournament berth since 2005 by averaging nearly 11 points and 7 rebounds a game. “I’m not going to go out there and shoot 3s like a lot of bigs do now, but pick my spots.


 “But I feel like no matter how the game has changed, you still need somebody down low to do some damage.”

 Basketball academies in Senegal like Flying Star now
 
  regularly send players abroad
 
 . After playing for a few months at the academy, Fall got a chance to join a high school team in the United States. His mother reluctantly let her son go, hoping he would receive a better education.


 Extremely raw when he arrived at Liberty Christian Preparatory School in Tavares, Fla., Fall almost quit basketball. But he refined his game while playing on a travel team alongside Ben Simmons, now with the Philadelphia 76ers. Fall also trained in Houston with Olajuwon, a Hall of Famer who emphasized the importance of footwork for a center his size.


 Occasionally, Fall watched Simmons at nearby Montverde Academy, where Koumadje landed after coming to the United States. Fall and Koumadje only briefly overlapped in Dakar — Koumadje is originally from Chad — but in high school they talked on the phone or via Facebook. Their discussions rarely veered into basketball. Instead, they commiserated about the difficulties of adjusting to life when you are over 7 feet tall and 4,500 miles from home.

 Koumadje, like Fall, grasps the unlikelihood that he will develop into a free-shooting N.B.A. big man. Before his senior year in high school, he played pickup games at the University of Southern California with Andre Drummond of the Detroit Pistons. It was then, Koumadje said, that he realized he was more effective cemented in the post.


 “The game is evolving and that’s what people want,” said Koumadje, a two-year starter who led the Seminoles in blocked shots this season. “But I play to my strength. That’s what I do.”

 Fall’s turning point came after his sophomore season at Central Florida, when he contemplated entering the 2017 N.B.A. draft. Five teams told him he needed vast improvement adapting to the speed of the pros, particularly in guarding pick-and-rolls.


 Central Florida Coach Johnny Dawkins — a former Duke guard who played with the towering centers Shawn Bradley and Manute Bol in the N.B.A. — was hired before Fall’s sophomore year, and created a three-year plan for him. Increasing mobility and stamina came first, followed by catching the ball down low and learning to work out of double and triple teams. This season, Dawkins has moved Fall farther out on the perimeter defensively.


 Wherever he stands, Fall often forces opposing players to elevate more when they shoot, to get the ball over his arms.

 “Our floaters have to be a little bit higher, and it probably screwed a couple of guys up,” Fran Dunphy, Temple’s coach at the time, said after a game against Central Florida on March 9.

 Teams have tried less inventive strategies to bypass Fall’s 8-foot-4 wingspan. Fall, who is bulkier than Bol or Bradley, said that he had heard opposing coaches tell players to go after his knees.


 Though he is all but assured of breaking the Division I record for career field-goal percentage — he currently shoots
 
  over 74 percent
 
 ; the record is 67.8 — Fall converts only 36 percent of his free throws. Fall — whose hands are 10½ inches long — said that when he shoots free throws it feels as if he is holding a volleyball.


 
  His shooting form
 
 , which involves using only his right hand while flinging his left arm in the air and then slouching, has drawn derisive comments on social media, where he is sometimes treated as a sideshow. After Fall had 13 points and 10 rebounds in a win over Houston that ended the Cougars' 33-game home winning streak, Fall got more attention for a GIF that showed him
 
  holding the ball over an opponent’s head
 
 like an older brother playing keep-away.


 Fall and Koumadje are accustomed to stares in airports and snide remarks from opposing fans. While both harbor N.B.A. dreams — neither appears in most mock drafts — they also envision a life beyond basketball, when their height won’t dictate how others perceive them.


 Koumadje said he would eventually like to work for the United Nations, helping refugees in Chad. Fall wants to become an engineer.


 “Basketball’s opened a lot of doors for me, but there’s more to me than the ball, the hoop,” Fall said. “I definitely don’t want to be defined by that. I definitely don’t want to be seen as an attraction, either.”

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Noel Murray
 

 
  Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for April, broken down by release date.
 


 
  ‘Ultraman’
 


 
  Starts streaming: April 1
 


 Along with “Astro Boy” and “Speed Racer,” the 1960s live-action superhero series “Ultraman” was one of the first Japanese TV programs to reach a mainstream audience worldwide. In its homeland, this tale of a gigantic armored alien and his symbiotic human companion has inspired sequels and spinoffs galore, including a current manga series that follows the adventures of the original hero’s son. That comic has been adapted to this new animated TV series, which blends traditional anime techniques with CGI.


 —


 
  ‘American Crime Story: The Assassination of Gianni Versace’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 4
 


 Although it didn’t get anywhere near the buzz or ratings of season one’s “
 
  The People v. O.J. Simpson
 
 ,” the “American Crime Story” second-season deep dive into the lives of Gianni Versace (played by Édgar Ramirez) and his murderer Andrew Cunanan (played by Darren Criss) is in a lot of ways even bolder and more inventive. The first episode begins with the serial killer gunning down the fashion designer, and then hour by hour “The Assassination of Gianni Versace” moves backward in the timeline, investigating how both these men were shaped by their family lives, by their egos and by the underground nature of gay culture in the late 20th century.


 —

 
  ‘Chilling Adventures of Sabrina’ Season 1, Part 2
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 5
 


 The special Christmas episode of “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina” that arrived in mid-December of 2018 offered a brief respite in the ongoing saga of the well-meaning teenage witch, Sabrina Spellman (played by Kiernan Shipka). But as part two of the series’ first season begins, the heroine finds herself back in a mess of her own making. She’s tapped into demonic powers to help her friends, and is now having trouble keeping her darker impulses in check. As with the season’s first half, expect story lines that evoke Harry Potter and “Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” with an eerily beautiful visual style that resembles “Rosemary’s Baby” and Hammer horror films.


 —

 
  ‘You vs. Wild’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 10
 


 Continuing the “choose your own adventure” experiment of last year’s much-talked-about “Black Mirror” special episode “
 
  Bandersnatch
 
 ,” Netflix is now applying branching options to a Bear Grylls survival show. In “You vs. Wild,” the celebrity outdoorsman will once again brave extreme weather to have dangerous wildlife encounters. But in this new series, viewers will have opportunities throughout to choose the ways Grylls goes.


 —


 
  [Want more Australia coverage?
 
 
  
   Sign up for the weekly
  
 
 
  
   
    Australia Letter
   
  
 
 
  
   here
  
 
 
  
   .
  
 
 
  ]
 


 
  ‘Black Summer’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 11
 


 The horror-comedy series “
 
  Z Nation
 
 ” developed a small but fervent fan following over the course of its five seasons, telling strange, sardonic stories about how society might adjust to a zombie apocalypse. The prequel spinoff “Black Summer” circles back to the beginning of the outbreak, following a mother (played by Jaime King) who’s trying to find her way to her daughter, dodging the undead while forging relationships with other survivors who’ve been left behind. The new show is being pitched as a more traditional thriller, replacing wry humor with white-knuckle chases and narrow escapes.


 —

 
  ‘Street Food’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 26
 


 The Netflix series “Chef’s Table” sets a new standard for how TV shows about cooking could look and feel, bringing psychological depth and visual lyricism to the subject of food. Some of the “Chef’s Table” creative team will now take that same approach to the world’s street vendors in “Street Food,” a series focusing on the culture of entire cities and countries — including Singapore and India, in season one — rather than on the habits and obsessions of individual chefs.


 —


 
  ‘She-Ra and the Princesses of Power’ Season 2
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 26
 


 The rebooted version of the clunky ‘80s syndicated cartoon “She-Ra: Princess of Power” was one of 2018’s most pleasant TV surprises: a fusion of the original’s old-fashioned science-fiction/fantasy mythology with the cultural diversity, emotional richness and character-driven storytelling of more modern animated series. Even the name was changed, to reflect a premise that surrounds the title heroine with multiple magical warriors. Having introduced a teeming cast of complicated heroes and villains in season one, the series’ creator Noelle Stevenson and her staff of writers and illustrators will in year two be looking to put them into action in stories with more epic sweep.


 —


 
  Also of Interest
 


 “Roman Empire: Caligula: The Mad Emperor” (April 5), “Tijuana” (April 5), “Huge in France” (April 12), “Special” (April 12), “My First First Love” (April 18), “Samantha!” Season 2 (April 19), “Selection Day: New Episodes” (April 22), “Bonding” (April 24), “Archer” Season 9 (April 26), “The Protector” Season 2 (April 26) and “Yankee” (April 26)


 —


 
  ‘Unicorn Store’
 


 
  Starts streaming: April 5
 


 Brie Larson is having a stellar 2019 so far, first starring in the international box-office smash “Captain Marvel,” and now seeing her 2017 directorial debut “Unicorn Store” finally get distribution via Netflix. Written by Samantha McIntyre, “Unicorn Store” stars Larson as Kit, an aimless, artsy young woman, who’s just about to settle for a dull-but-stable life in a corporate cubicle when she gets an offer from a mysterious stranger (played by Samuel L. Jackson), who says he can sell her a unicorn. The film’s quirkily colorful images are in service of a whimsical story, meant to raise questions about what it means — realistically — to “follow your dream.”


 —

 
  ‘La La Land’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 9
 


 Can a movie that grossed over $400 million worldwide, and that
 
  nearly won the Oscar for Best Picture
 
 , be underrated? Now that the frenzy of the 2016 awards season has abated, it’s time to re-appreciate “La La Land,” the writer-director Damien Chazelle’s heartfelt and ambitious musical, about two aspiring Los Angeles artists — a jazz musician played by Ryan Gosling, and an actress played by Emma Stone — who help each other grow into the people they’re meant to be. Tuneful, stylish and masterfully acted, “La La Land” is a wonderful throwback to the best of classic Hollywood and the French New Wave.


 —

 
  ‘The Big Short’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 7
 


 After directing some of the best-loved comedies of the 21st century — including “Anchorman,” “Talladega Nights” and “Step Brothers” — Adam McKay tried something different with 2015’s “The Big Short,” an adaptation of Michael Lewis’ nonfiction book about the 2008 financial crisis. An all-star cast that includes Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell and an Oscar-nominated Christian Bale help McKay and his fellow screenwriter Charles Randolph tell a complicated story about the people who predicted the market crash, and who made a lot of money thanks to flaws in the system. This is a lively, frequently funny movie, with a point to make about how everyday folks are often lied to and betrayed by politicians and pundits.


 —


 
  ‘The Silence’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 12
 


 It’s hard to avoid comparing the horror film “The Silence” with the recent blockbuster “
 
  A Quiet Place
 
 ,” given that both are about close-knit families surviving on a ravaged Earth, avoiding monsters who hunt their prey by sound. But “The Silence” is actually based on a Tim Lebbon novel, which predates “A Quiet Place.” Stanley Tucci plays the heroic patriarch, while Kiernan Shipka plays his daughter, whose other senses have been heightened since she lost her hearing at 13. The veteran horror cinematographer and director John R. Leonetti directs, from a script by Dick Van Dyke’s grandchildren, Carey and Shane Van Dyke.


 —

 
  ‘The Perfect Date’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 12
 


 Netflix’s high school rom-com machine keeps rolling with “The Perfect Date,” which features a lead performance by
 
  Noah Centineo
 
 , who’s previously appeared in Netflix’s similar “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” and “Sierra Burgess Is a Loser.” Here he plays Brooks Rattigan, a broke student headed to college, who decides to make some extra money for school by renting himself out to young women who’d like to be seen with a smart, handsome lad. As tends to happen in these kinds of movies, Brooks soon finds that separating his business from his emotions proves difficult.


 —


 
  ‘Someone Great’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 19
 


 The “Jane the Virgin” star Gina Rodriguez and the “Atlanta”/“Sorry to Bother You” actor Lakeith Stanfield play a newly broken-up couple in the writer-director Jennifer Kaytin Robinson’s “Someone Great,” a romantic comedy more about the bond between friends than about boy meets girl. When Rodriguez’s pop-culture reporter character Jenny gets a job at a magazine in San Francisco, she and her two best pals — played by DeWanda Wise and Brittany Snow — have one last wild romp together in New York City to help Jenny to get over her heartbreak and to bid her a spectacular farewell.


 —

 
  ‘Persona: Collection’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 5
 


 The Korean pop singer Lee Ji-eun — sometimes professionally known as IU — plays four different characters in “Persona,” a collection of short films by up-and-coming Korean directors. In “Love Set,” “Collector,” “Kiss Burn” and “Walking at Night,” Lee plays the lead in everything from a tennis drama to a surreal romance, in stories that shift from light comedy to something more gripping. This project is a change of pace for the musician, who’s been a staple on television in her home country for years, but has less experience making movies.


 —


 
  Also of Interest
 


 “The Exorcist” (April 1), “Sense and Sensibility” (April 1), “Something’s Gotta Give” (April 1), “Suzzanna: Buried Alive” (April 3), “Our Planet” (April 5), “Who Would You Take to a Deserted Island?” (April 12), “American History X” (April 15), “Bridget Jones’s Diary” (April 17), “Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason” (April 17), “Les Miserables” (April 17), “Savages” (April 17), “The World’s End” (April 17), “A Fortunate Man” (April 19), “Music Teacher” (April 19), “Grass is Greener” (April 20), “Aurora” (April 25) and “The Nice Guys” (April 30)


 —


 
  ‘I Think You Should Leave with Tim Robinson’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 23
 


 The loud-voiced comic Tim Robinson is probably best-known for cocreating and co-starring in the sweetly eccentric sitcom “Detroiters,” with his friend Sam Richardson. But he also spent a few years as a writer and an occasional bit player on “Saturday Night Live.” Robinson puts that sketch training to use — along with his ability to make a strong, not always positive first impression — in the offbeat cringe-comedy show “I Think You Should Leave.” In a variety of scenarios, Robinson and others play characters so obnoxious and intense that they drive anyone in the immediate vicinity into fleeing.


 —


 
  Also of Interest
 


 “Kevin Hart: Irresponsible” (April 2) and “Anthony Jeselnik: Fire in the Maternity Ward” (April 30)

 
  Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly
  
   Australia Letter
  
  , start your day with your local
  
   Morning Briefing
  
  and join us in our
  
   Facebook group
  
  .
 





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Books of The Times
 


 By
 
 
  
   Dwight Garner
  
 

 When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 Some poets are cutters, others are curers, showing up to every occasion like a condolence-wisher with a casserole. Chelsey Minnis is firmly in the first category. Her verse arrives well chilled. It is served with misanthropic aplomb.


 “Let’s go get some smoke in our eyes,” she writes in her latest collection, “Baby, I Don’t Care,” a set of nearly 150 single-page poems, most of them untitled double quintets, that play with notions taken from Hollywood’s golden era and film noir.


 “I love to go to bed sober, / which means I have to start drinking early,” her narrator comments. “I like it when two men take off their dinner jackets and fight,” she says. “Next time you see me, I’ll be crashing Rolls-Royces.”


 Minnis is endlessly quotable, so one has to work hard not to quote her endlessly. “Let’s be objectionable and immoral and utterly no good,” her narrator suggests. “Let’s get thrown into third class.” She says: “You see, I’m the type of person who would hurt a fly.” And: “Did anyone ever try to kill you in a rowboat before?”

 In “Baby, I Don’t Care,” one of the most unusual and persuasive books of poems I’ve read in some time, Minnis is not merely conducting a droll séance with the help of Turner Classic Movies. (She thanks TCM in her acknowledgments.)


 As anyone who is familiar with her four earlier collections is aware, she’s a provocative thinker about gender and poetry and the erotics of dislike. As she wrote in “Poemland,” her 2009 collection, “Sometimes I try to please someone that I hate … / So that I can enjoy a range of satisfactions.”


 Her poems marinate in the sort of feelings you don’t like to admit you have. There’s a tang of Nietzsche in her antisocial desires, her amorality. Minnis is a bored, fierce, literate attendee at what the poet Frederick Seidel has referred to as “life’s cotillion.”


 The speaker in “Baby, I Don’t Care” is a soignée gold-digger (“Baby, why don’t you give me an oil well or something?”) who toys with the lunk who keeps her in diamonds.


 He’s a side of beef into which she flicks verbal darts. “Baby, it’s so sexy to think. / Why don’t you try it?” she says. And: “Try not to talk when you’re sober, darling.” She coos, “You’re so handsome it’s a shame. / It makes me want to murder some pigeons.”

 Like a pickpocket, without belaboring any of her points, Minnis unpacks and satirizes the misogyny embedded in this relationship.


 Minnis was born in 1970. She grew up in Denver and attended the University of Colorado in Boulder and the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. At Boulder, she studied under the poet Edward Dorn. In her 2007 book, “Bad Bad,” she wrote: “The poet I worship is Edward Dorn, because I adore his disgust.”


 Her first book, “Zirconia,” appeared in 2001. In much of her early work, the poems comprise clusters of words that float in fields of ellipses, to intense if slippery effect. These ellipses function like cosmic versions of Emily Dickinson’s dashes. At times, in ways both comic and deadly earnest, Minnis can seem like Dickinson broadcasting from hell.


 With “Baby, I Don’t Care” in bookstores, and “Zirconia” and “Bad Bad” about to be
 
  reissued in one volume
 
 from Fence Books, Minnis, one senses, may be about to have a moment. The gifted poet Sandra Simonds recently wrote
 
  a bracing analysis of Minnis’s work
 
 on the Poetry Foundation’s website.


 Minnis’s poems are unrhymed yet aphoristic and diligently organized. In her direct access to pain and sometimes wit, her knack for absurdity and disturbance, she can resemble poets as diverse as Anne Sexton and Patricia Lockwood. She combines glamour and ordure in a manner that can resemble the prose of Ottessa Moshfegh.


 She understands recrimination and revenge. Reading her might make you recall Graham Greene’s line about Flann O’Brien’s novel “At Swim-Two-Birds,” the way it filled him with “the kind of glee one experiences when people smash china on the stage.”

 Minnis writes frequently about poetry itself. In “Bad Bad,” there is a section that reads like a dissident manifesto. There are many jokers in Minnis’s pack. Sometimes the only way to talk about this poet is to let her talk, so I am going to print some unconnected observations from “Bad Bad” and get out of the way.


 People say “nothing new” or “the death of the author” but, I am new and I am not dead.


 If anyone thinks they need to write reviews, teach classes, edit magazines, or translate books in order to write good poetry … then maybe they should just take a rest from it.

 Poetry is for crap since there’s no money or fast cars in it …
 
 But, in the thighs … I feel it.


 You should not fall in love with your mentor, but you should try to punish him with your poems.


 I fell in love with my mentor like a novice …
 
 I was a nude girl on a fire truck ringing a bell.


 I cannot write poems to honor other poets …
 
 I do not think of them at all.


 I am only sentimental about my drinks …


 I will tell you what is poetry …
 
 It is a remote electronic claw picking up a stuffed bunny rabbit …


 It is like bleeding from your anus in the snow.

 Even better, Minnis may not be glad of this review. In the same collection, she writes: “I want to write a poem because I don’t feel very boring! / But I will feel like a stuffed leopard because of the praise.” In her new book, she writes: “Let me give you my feedback. / My feedback is arf arf arf.”


 Let’s say you haven’t bought a book of poetry in some time. “Baby, I Don’t Care” and the reissues from Fence Books could make you come back. You could start here.

 
  Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter:
  
   @DwightGarner
  
  .
 


 Baby, I Don’t Care
 
 By Chelsey Minnis
 
 249 pages. Wave Books. $18.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 in her words


 Those who targeted the new superhero film were, in part, incited by comments made by its star, Brie Larson, who called it a “big feminist movie.”


 By
 
 
  
   Maya Salam
  
 

 
  You’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines.
 
 
  
   Sign up
  
 
 
  here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at
 
 
  
   dearmaya@nytimes.com
  
 
 .


 
  “This is not a revolution, it’s a restoration. Girls have always read comics.”
 


 
  —
 
 
  
   Kelly Sue DeConnick
  
 
 
  , the comic book writer whose reimagining of Captain Marvel was the basis of the new film
 


 Trolls tried to torpedo the new “Captain Marvel” movie — but in the end, the
 
 shero Carol Danvers
 
 (who’s been Captain Marvel in the comic books since 2012) prevailed. The film sailed past $500 million in
 
  ticket sales
 
 in its first week
 
 .


 ICYMI: Within hours of the movie’s
 
 release
 
 on March 8 (International Women’s Day), in what appeared to be a concerted effort,
 
 some 58,000
 
 online reviews of “Captain Marvel” had
 
 tanked its rating on Rotten Tomatoes
 
 — leaving the film with
 
 an abysmal score of around 30 percent.


 Rotten Tomatoes
 
 fixed the problem by that afternoon,
 
  removing about 50,000
 
 of the reviews
 
 , which the site said had been written before the film was released. Among other measures, the site swiftly eliminated prerelease audience reviews altogether.


 “We’re doing it to more accurately and authentically represent the voice of fans,” the site said, “while protecting our data and public forums from bad actors.
 
 ”
 


 Now, the movie’s audience score is around 62 percent, and the “Tomatometer,” which analyzes ratings from film critics, is at 79 percent, slightly below the average for Marvel movies.

 
  [
 
 
  
   READ MORE: When ‘Captain Marvel’ Became a Target, the Rules Changed
  
 
 
  ]
 


 But “Captain Marvel” is not the only recent female-led film in the comic or sci-fi realm to be swarmed by trolls. As my colleague Cara Buckley
 
  wrote this week
 
 : “The all-female remake of ‘Ghostbusters,’ ‘Black Panther’ and ‘Star Wars: The Last Jedi,’ which had a diverse cast, all found themselves in the cross hairs of armchair critics, some aligned with alt-right groups.”


 Last year, a Facebook group called “Down with Disney’s Treatment of Franchises and Its Fanboys” posted an event called “Give Black Panther a Rotten Audience Score on Rotten Tomatoes.” The group had also
 
  claimed responsibility
 
 for sinking scores for “Star Wars: The Last Jedi.”


 Those who appeared to have targeted “Captain Marvel” were most likely incited by comments made by Brie Larson, the titular star. Last year, Larson vowed to seek out more underrepresented journalists after noticing she was being interviewed by mostly white men. She had a similar critique about film critics: “I do not need a 40-year-old white dude to tell me what didn’t work for him about ‘A Wrinkle in Time.’ It wasn’t made for him.”


 She also told “
 
  Entertainment Tonight
 
 ” that the vision for the film was clear during an early meeting with Marvel: Make “a big feminist movie.”


 Even if the trolls tried to stop her, make a big feminist movie she did.


 
  
   
    Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!
   
  
 


 ______


 As the “Star Wars” heroines Padmé Amidala and Princess Leia fell in love with
 
 Anakin Skywalker and
 
  
  
 
 Han Solo
 
 , respectively, their outfits grew more skimpy, they grew more helpless, and their focus shifted away from their roles as political leaders and toward more passive roles as romantic partners, according to a
 
  new study
 
 by researchers at Florida State University.

 "Objectification is obvious with costumes like Leia's gold bikini or Padmé’s black leather corset dress,” said Mary C. King, one of the researchers. But it was the many subtle ways that characters’ looks were altered — more color, softer hairstyles — that she said surprised researchers the most.


 ______


 
  Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.
 

 
  “You felt like you were a piece of meat.”
 
 Female veterans say a culture of harassment and discrimination exists in the V.A. medical system. [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  “I believe fundamentally there was a gender bias at issue.”
 
 After 55,000 old rape kits were finally tested with funds provided by the Manhattan district attorney’s office, 64 attackers were convicted. [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  “I am cozy because I have to be. I am cozy to survive.”
 
 Lena Dunham writes about her struggle with chronic pain and how coziness is her “religion.” [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  “Here is this amazing kid who volunteered to fight and die for our country.”
 
 In interviews, dozens of transgender troops said that they felt supported in the armed services, despite the hostile Trump administration. [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  “What does it take?”
 
 This week, the largest college entry scandal in the U.S. underscored the racial and economic disparities that plague access to higher education. [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  Are you in New York next week? Come celebrate Women’s History Month with a night of conversation and comedy, including “Handmaid’s Tale: The Musical,” with The New York Times Opinion section.
 
 
  
   Get tickets here
  
 
 
  .
 


 ______


 
  For Women’s History Month, we’re highlighting stories of trailblazing women you may not know, but should. We’ll bring you two women each week in this newsletter. Head over to
 
 
  
   our Instagram
  
 
 
  for daily posts.
 


 In her top hat and tuxedo, Gladys Bentley belted gender-bending original blues numbers and lewd parodies of popular songs, eventually becoming 1920s Harlem royalty. When not accompanied by a dazzling piano, the singer often swept through the audience, flirting with women and soliciting dirty lyrics from them as she sang.


 By the early 1930s, Bentley was Harlem’s most famous lesbian figure and among the best-known black entertainers in the U.S. She was also the first prominent performer of her era to embrace a transgender identity.

 
  Read more about Gladys Bentley here.
 


 
  
   Sign up here
  
 
 
  to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox.
 


 
  
   Read past articles here
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Children’s Books
 


 
  I CAN ONLY DRAW WORMS
 
 
 Written and illustrated by Will Mabbitt.


 Maybe Mabbitt can’t draw many things, but boy, can he conceive and execute a witty, surprising, maximum fun picture book. Oh, and this one doubles as a counting exercise. Having announced that worms are his entire repertoire, Mabbitt proceeds to wrangle 10 neon-bright ones onto the pages, with hilarious difficulty. They’re so hard to tell apart. And poor worm No. 8: “It’s not true that if a worm is cut in half it makes two worms,” we learn. “It makes two half worms.”
 
 
  32 pp. Penguin. $14.99. (Ages 3 to 5)
 


 
  THE SUN SHINES EVERYWHERE
 
 
 Written by Mary Ann Hoberman.
 
 Illustrated by Luciano Lozano.

 If you’re as picky about rhyming picture books as I am, you’ll be excited that the former children’s poet laureate Hoberman, whose meter never falters, has created this clever ode to the sun and its globe-spanning, life-giving power. With Lozano’s cheerful art, the pages fly by, dropping tidbits of geoscience and empathy-building name-checks of far-off places: “Some children live in Paris / And others live in Rome. / Some children dwell in New Rochelle / And some call China home.” (But why no mention of Africans?)
 
 
  32 pp. Little, Brown. $17.99. (Ages 3 to 7)
 

 
  MOST MARSHMALLOWS
 
 
 Written and illustrated by Rowboat Watkins.

 Can marshmallows be exquisite? That’s the word that leaps to mind for this new picture book from Watkins (“Rude Cakes,” “Big Bunny”), which is full of irresistible handmade figures and precisely detailed diorama art. With their delicately penciled-on faces and outfits, the marshmallows in this world are everyday folks: “They go to school most mornings / and learn to be squishy / and how to stand in rows,” and they live in houses and celebrate birthdays. Like all Watkins’s books, this one has wonderfully compact language and an ending that surprises, with a rousing, wholehearted imaginative leap. It turns out even humble marshmallows can — and should — dream big.
 
 
  40 pp. Chronicle. $16.99. (Ages 3 to 7)
 


 
  ANOTHER
 
 
 Written and illustrated by Christian Robinson.

 Robinson’s first book as both author and illustrator is a gentle, wordless wonder that follows a little girl and her cat after they find a portal into another world. There, children and pets encounter mirror versions of themselves — wearing different-colored clothes, so you can tell which is which. Robinson’s geometric precision combines with his flat-out adorable collaged characters to make for a unique kind of enchantment. You’ll find yourself rotating the book to try to put the story’s sophisticated puzzle together.
 
 
  32 pp. Atheneum. $17.99. (Ages 3 to 8)
 


 
  A STORY THAT GROWS
 
 
 Written and illustrated by Gilles Bachelet.

 This nifty bedtime book from the esteemed French illustrator Bachelet has a parent-child pair of creatures on every spread. Each kid is in a species-specific crib, ready to hear a story that takes off in an appropriate direction: The ostrich’s story “hatches,” the snail’s story “takes … its … time.” The creatures, who include a truck and a Martian, are not named — this book asks for, and will reward, intense visual reading from young listeners, as they pore over the gorgeous, kooky bedrooms, filled with hilarious customized beds and toys.
 
 
  32 pp. Eerdmans. $16. (Ages 3 to 7)
 

 
  OINK
 
 
 Written and illustrated by David Elliot.

 Elliot’s funny story is told in animal sounds and onomatopoeia (“Mooo!” and “Boing!”). One by one, unruly animals join a pig in his bathtub. Pig looks distraught, then angry, until he creates a tub-clearing moment (think unidentified bubbles) and enjoys his bath in peace. The delicacy and subtlety of the art only adds to the frisky humor.
 
 
  32 pp. Gecko. $16.99. (Ages 3 to 7)
 


 
  THE LITTLE GUYS
 
 
 Written and illustrated by Vera Brosgol.

 The little acorn-capped creatures in Brosgol’s (“Leave Me Alone!”) latest gem think they’re “the strongest guys in the whole forest” — there are so many of them, after all. Marching and climbing together, they try to dominate bigger animals. As they try to yank a berry from a baby bird’s mouth, they crash to earth. Chastened, they climb back up to feed the whole nest. What a fantastic message: not just “teamwork,” but actual community.
 
 
  40 pp. Roaring Brook. $17.99.
 


 
  A GREEN PLACE TO BE
 
 
 
  The Creation of Central Park
 
 
 Written and illustrated by Ashley Benham Yazdani.

 This delightful slice of history shows the hard work and careful planning that went into one of the world’s great outdoor public spaces, New York City’s “vibrant jewel.” Yazdani’s mesmerizing watercolor and pencil art teems with fascinating details as it makes the park’s past and present seem unified, driving home the importance of creating and preserving “quiet green spots in a fast-changing world.”
 
 
  40 pp. Candlewick. $17.99. (Ages 7 to 10)
 

 Maria Russo is the children’s books editor at the Book Review.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
 
 
  , sign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Books of The Times
 


 By
 
 
  
   Dwight Garner
  
 

 When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 There isn’t a single pickup truck in “Lot,” Bryan Washington’s first book of stories. The setting is Houston, but oil is barely mentioned. The Bush family and the space industry don’t come up at all. No one tells anyone to go big or go home (an unofficial state slogan). But because many of Washington’s characters are recent immigrants, that imperative is more or less implied.


 Washington’s subtle, dynamic and flexible stories play out across the city’s sprawling and multiethnic neighborhoods. His characters move through streets named so often — Richmond and Waugh, Rusk and Fairview — that they come to have talismanic power, like the street names in Springsteen songs.


 Washington’s stories, like Philip Levine’s poems, are heavily peopled. “Gonzalo belched it and Neesha sang it and Marilyn prayed for a flash of intuition” is a not untypical sentence. One story gives us a frightened crew of gay hustlers, many of them boys, named Scratch and Google and Poke and Knock and Nacho.


 There’s a zigzag through line in “Lot.” About half of the stories are about a single family. In particular they’re about the coming-of-age of a teenager, the son of a black mother and a Latino father, who works in the family restaurant and is discovering, to the delight of his shivering senses, that he likes to fool around with boys.

 
  [ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of March. See
 
 
  
   the full list
  
 
 
  . ]
 


 Other stories loop around this boy’s tale. One is about how a woman’s affair with a “whiteboy” rattles an entire apartment building. “When she came around looking for ackee,” Washington writes, slyly, “his was the freshest on the shelf.” Another is a caper about two amiable numbskulls who work at a restaurant called the Sushi Shack. They find what they call a chupacabra under a bridge, and hope their photos of the poor animal will go viral. Others are about drug dealers, the members of a baseball team and hurricane survivors.


 The first thing to say about Washington is that he’s an alert and often comic observer of the world. “Denise lived in one of those walk-ups that look like garbage from a distance,” he writes. “Then you get a little closer and they don’t look any better.”


 He has a gift for observing things like skin tones. The central character’s father “wore his skin like a sunburnt peach.” His mother has a darker pigment, “like rust on the rim of the stove.”


 He places the casual racism of the food industry on display. When the boy goes out looking for work in restaurants besides his family’s, “They read my name and they saw my face and they pointed to the dishes.”


 At the same time, Washington’s writing about food has a resonant matter-of-factness. “I slice and I marinate and unsleeve the meat,” the young man says. “Pack it in aluminum. Load the pit, light the fire. The pigs we gut have blue eyes. They start blinking when you do it, like they’re having flashbacks.”

 There’s nothing overtly or pretentiously literary about his stories, but when books are mentioned you tend to want to visit the passages twice. Here he is on a young woman, a sometime prostitute, and her bookishness:


 “She hit the resorts; she discovered Milton; she worked the coast; she discovered Rimbaud; she bought some heels; she discovered Babel; she took care of her skin; she discovered Rumi; she tried not to catch the clap; she discovered Borges; she caught the clap; she discovered Allende; she waited it out; she discovered Plath; she tried not to catch anything else.”


 Washington cracks open a vibrant, polyglot side of Houston about which few outsiders are aware. On one level, this landscape is bleak. These stories take place amid dismal laundromats and broken-down pharmacies. There are turf wars and shootouts. Things happen near Dollar Tree stores or in Whataburger parking lots. The men and women here are extended hope only in minuscule, homeopathic amounts. Perversely, their neighborhoods are gentrifying at the same time, pricing many long-timers out.


 But there is a fair amount of joy in Washington’s stories, too. (Some have previously appeared in magazines like Tin House and The New Yorker.) An underthrob of emotion beats inside them. He’s confident enough not to force the action. The stories feel loose, their cellular juices free to flow.


 Living in what the critic Albert Murray called “this great hit-and-miss republic,” Washington’s characters pivot between alienation and longing. Many of them lack papers or have expiring visas or worry about getting deported over a traffic ticket.


 “I haven’t seen the stars since I made it to Houston,” one recent immigrant says. She feels the city’s smog in her throat. She wants to learn not just English but “
 
  English
 
 english, the language of money,” the kind she hears in banks.


 These newcomers are mostly welcome. As one character remarks, “With our not-legals shuffling in, people who don’t have time for the violence, people whose only reason for bouncing was to get
 
  away
 
 from the violence, we’ve mellowed out, found our rhythm. Slowed down. You can raise a kid in the complex. Start a garden.”

 A few of these stories are barely more than vignettes. One or two don’t quite coalesce. This is on a certain level a modest book, one that isn’t going to drive other young short story writers into the shadows. But the promise Washington displays is real and large.


 One of the moving things about “Lot” is its communal sensibility. There’s a sense that these characters are all in it together, and the narrators have a way of gliding between “I” and “we.”


 One of them tries to remember “a time when you could probably look at the four of us and still call us okay.”

 
  Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter:
  
   @DwightGarner
  
  .
 


 Lot: Stories
 
 By Bryan Washington
 
 222 pages. Riverhead Books. $25.



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Manohla Dargis
  
 

 At one point in “Alita: Battle Angel” — another dystopian fantasy that reminds you of just how visionary the original “Blade Runner” was — the cyborg heroine gets a new body. It’s a streamlined shoulder-to-foot job, one that makes her look like a sex doll with a chrome-plated musculoskeletal system. Her new physique turns out to be an innovative weapon and comes with articulated parts, a wasp waist and what looks like a discreet chastity panel for the groin. It also has larger breasts than the old model, a change that in a snort-out-loud line is pinned on Alita’s own ideas about how she should look.


 If only someone here were joking or had an idea about the construction of femininity. Why does Alita (Rosa Salazar), who has a human brain, even have breasts? Why does any cyborg that isn’t a sex bot or a wet nurse? Genre convention only partly explains the onscreen look of this character, originally created by Yukito Kishiro in his manga series. Kishiro sexes up his cyborg, an amnesiac who in the first comic retains one protuberant breast when the rest of her body is destroyed. This brings to mind Jessica Rabbit, the bodacious femme fatale in “Who Framed Roger Rabbit” who purrs “I’m just drawn that way” — yeah, but by whom, for whom and why?

 “Alita” is the latest from James Cameron, though he takes only some of the blame. He helped produce the movie and shares script credit with Laeta Kalogridis (they collaborated on “Avatar”); he was going to direct it himself but handed it off to Robert Rodriguez (“Sin City”). The presence of other “Avatar” veterans — the senior visual effects supervisor, animation supervisor and so on — raised expectations that “Alita” would at least look good, different or inspired. But too much of its overall design feels borrowed, by turns evoking the monochromatic clutter of “District 9,” the vertical favelas of “Ready Player One” and the randomly milling, anonymous hordes of whatever.

 A pileup of clichés in service to technological whiz-bangery, “Alita” is one more story of the not quite human brought to life with hubris and bleeding-edge science. It takes place in the 23rd century after a global cataclysm called the Fall. The movie’s story, inspirations and allusions (
 
  Hitchcock!
 
 ), though, more rightly announce it as a 20th-century artifact, one that begins when Alita’s head and shoulders are found and refurbished by a paternalistic doctor, Ido (an atypically uneasy Christoph Waltz). Theirs is a post-apocalyptic meet-cute that morphs from yet another riff on Frankenstein’s monster into a sitcom-y father-and-daughter duet, plus brawling and exposition.


 The story proceeds by fits and starts with a narrative line — Alita’s journey of self-awareness — that is embellished with a dreary old-fashioned romance and regularly interrupted by chaotic action scenes. Some of this crash-boom stuff takes place during a game called Motorball, one of those survivalist contests that have been a genre staple since at least the
 
  1975 film “Death Race 2000.”
 
 The contestants have something to do with Vector (a wasted Mahershala Ali), a regulation villain who takes fashion cues from “The Matrix.” This being a very small world, he lives with Ido’s ex, Chiren (Jennifer Connelly), who when not selling her soul lounges in garters and stockings.


 Everything here tends to remind you of something else, including Alita, who was created with performance capture. This involves monitoring and recording a performer’s movements using sensors attached to her face and body, information that becomes the foundation for a character that’s digitally fleshed out. Cameron used a version of this technology to greater effect in “Avatar,” a reminder that whatever his limitations as a filmmaker — he’s a great visual storyteller who’s invariably easier on the eyes than ears — he is a technological wiz. Salazar’s performance, alas, is consistently bland, but then she was drawn and directed that way, like Jessica Rabbit.


 It’s easy to imagine that both Salazar and Rodriguez would have fared better if her face had been left alone rather than rendered into a stylized manga cartoon, complete with a heart shape and eyes even bigger than Emma Stone’s. It’s vaguely diverting to stare at Alita’s face, at least at first, to ponder its shape, texture and pale color, and the way that her brow furrows when she’s being emphatic. Mostly, though, what’s interesting about it is that it lacks the conviction, the spark, which turns truly wonderful animated creations — Disney’s Pinocchio,
 
  Hayao Miyazaki’s Ponyo
 
 — into characters you laugh with and weep for. This is a matter of style, inspiration and imagination, or their absence.


 There’s so little at stake in “Alita: Battle Angel” that it blurs into uninvolving spasms of visual and aural noise as it lurches to the cliffhanger ending, a setup for promised sequels. If you stick around for the end credits, you will read that “the making and authorized distribution of this film supported over 15,000 jobs and involved hundreds of thousands of work hours.” In other words, piracy threatens the American movie industry, even if a chunk of the jobs here seem to have originated outside the United States. It’s still a worthy wag of the finger, although it’s difficult not to wish that more of those hours had been spent telling a really good story instead of tweaking tech and shiny breasts.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Alita: Battle Angel
 
 Rated PG-13 for regular violence, including cyborg dismemberment. In English and Spanish, with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes.



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 How do you judge the performance of a very expensive cyborg?


 On one hand, Fox’s “Alita: Battle Angel,” an effects-laden, dystopian, sci-fi action movie with a bionic heroine, easily topped this weekend’s domestic box office. It exceeded most analysts’ expectations by bringing in about $27.8 million in the lead-up to Presidents’ Day.


 On the other hand, that amount is modest next to the roughly $170 million it took make the movie, produced in part by James Cameron and based on a manga series by Yukito Kishiro. A digitally augmented Rosa Salazar leads a cast that also includes Christoph Waltz and Mahershala Ali.


 While it was Robert Rodriguez — best known for the “
 
  Sin City
 
 ” and the “
 
  Spy Kids
 
 ” movies — who directed the film, Cameron’s name has been used heavily in the movie’s marketing, echoing the way Peter Jackson’s was employed to push another expensive sci-fi movie, “
 
  Mortal Engines
 
 ,” in December. (Jackson was a writer and producer of that film, but it was directed by Christian Rivers.)


 “Mortal Engines” was
 
  one of the biggest flops of 2018
 
 , opening to about $7.5 million domestically against a budget of around $100 million. Fox had initially planned to release “Alita: Battle Angel” in December, when it would have gone up against a tangle of holiday crowd-pleasers. The studio’s decision to push the release to February seems to have helped Cameron to avoid, at least, a “Mortal Engines”-like disaster.

 
  [
 
 
  
   Read our critic’s review of “Alita: Battle Angel.”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 Second place at the box office was Warner Bros.’s “
 
  The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part
 
 .” This sequel about toy-brick people, voiced by Chris Pratt and Elizabeth Banks, brought in about $21.2 million during its second weekend in theaters according to Comscore, which compiles box office data. (If there’s a lesson to take from the top two movies, it’s that audiences gravitate toward the not-quite-human.)


 Warner Bros. also took third place with “
 
  Isn’t it Romantic
 
 ,” a comedy that opened about $14.2 million in ticket sales this weekend. The movie, both a romantic comedy and a commentary on romantic comedies, stars Rebel Wilson and Liam Hemsworth.


 Meta commentary is also at play in the other newcomer to crack the top five, Universal’s “
 
  Happy Death Day 2U
 
 ,” which made around $9.8 million in its first weekend, landing in fifth place. It is a self-parodying sequel to the 2017 slasher “
 
  Happy Death Day
 
 .”


 Overall, this weekend failed to invigorate what has so far been a lackluster year at the box office. That Presidents’ Day weekend of last year
 
  saw the release
 
 of the record-shattering “Black Panther” only adds urgency to the question of when things will pick up.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 DAILY CROSSWORD COLUMN


 Erik Agard brings us together by splitting us up.


 By
 
 
  
   Caitlin Lovinger
  
 

 
  SUNDAY PUZZLE —
 
 Today’s Erik Agard grid has a little trick, one of those breezy ones that you figure out and start thinking, “Oh, I bet I could come up with dozens of these” (you probably can’t). There’s a Will Shortz introduction to the Sunday grid in print now, for anyone who doesn’t read the paper Sunday Magazine, and apparently Mr. Agard does a Sunday puzzle in around five minutes. I felt as if I sped through this puzzle, although I came nowhere near that blazing speed (I definitely can’t). If you understand the trick early in your solve, you’ll probably feel the same. If you didn’t, never fear! It’s not easy, it’s clever, and it’s one of those that sneaks up on you like a really well-balanced spicy bowl of chili.


 There is a bit of a commonality between today’s grid and today’s variety puzzle, so if you liked this one and still have some big puzzle energy try the one called “Meshing Around.” It is certainly a coincidence and I will avoid
 
  apophenia
 
 but just say it is available on the crossword page, in case you aren’t in the habit of finding and solving our additional Sunday offerings.


 Obviously we are going to see some very cool cluing today, given our constructor. I loved YESSIR, SPA, LIES, TSK, SCREW and others.


 I had “book” for GEAR because I don’t use a backpack, I am of average height and I look like a tortoise with one. Back in college I once took a backpack on a weekend trip with the Collected Chaucer in it and nothing else. I also drew a blank on some names, including AMECHE (because of how it was clued, I insist), SERT, DARLA and CELIE, who was played by Whoopi Goldberg but was still a toughie to me.

 29A: At first I glossed over this clue because I’m no chess expert, but I learned that this move, en PASSANT, is quite unusual and sneaky, and
 
  involves only pawns
 
 , which is really nice because pawns don’t get much glory, do they. PASSANT is also a heraldic term, referring to that peculiar stance you sometimes see lions or dragons taking, on shields and crests and such, where one paw is raised dramatically in pre-pounce. Cool how this clue crosses over SPARES, another
 
  sports reference
 
 .


 132A: This actress is also a rapper, and she’s from Queens! Look her up — AWKWAFINA. She’s a lot of fun and was just in the news this week for something earth-shattering — she’s the
 
  first public figure to have an orchid named after her
 
 by the New York Botanical Garden. This is the kind of service journalism I am proud to bring you.


 29D: This clue — “Oink-filled pen” — seems as if it could be a sign that a whimsical farmer could buy on etsy.com to put above a PIGSTY. One where the pigs wear sweaters when it’s cold out and get artisanal plant-based slop. Also fabulous how this nearly ran into INK at 72D.


 32D: Think military time — this is TWO PM.


 73D: This is one you either know or you don’t know, I’m pretty sure, and it is a debut. Manga is a huge pop culture niche and SAILOR MOON is
 
  a major franchise
 
 , but a person can absorb only so much entertainment.


 97D: Think mama birds, or
 
  some Hollywood actresses
 
 , who PRECHEW everything their precious progeny ingest.

 O.K., so I don’t know what made me start at the bottom of this puzzle (I have such a thing for Awkwafina, my brain must have made a beeline to her) — but if you get the clue to the explainer for the theme, at 121A, then the trick is self-explanatory. Still fun, though.


 There are seven theme entries, indicated by italic clues at 21, 40, 59, 64, 72, 84 and 99 Across. The clues solve to two-part entries, none of which are particularly obvious: I think I was about a third through the entire grid before I finished my first theme entry. That was 84A, “
 
  Allen Ginsberg, e.g.,”
 
 which solved to PROTEST POET. Sounds right to me, but it is anyone’s guess, given just that example, what Mr. Agard is getting at.


 A bit above this one at 64A, “
 
  Posting that is blowing in the wind”
 
 made me think of Bob Dylan and vaguely entertain the notion of a “freewheelin’” theme today, something that I would kind of love, and the answer here — SWINGING SIGN — did sort of fit the vibe, a little, sort of.


 Then I finished the northwest corner, and with it the slightly city-slicker-snob clue at 21A, “
 
  Likely inexpensive place to get one’s hair done,”
 
 SMALL TOWN SALON. This was possibly the most stilted of the very smooth theme entries, and it did prompt an attempt to parse just what was going on here.


 You might notice that in each of these examples there is a preponderance of the same letters; in fact, every letter in the last part of each theme entry is included in the first part of the theme entry. In
 
  fact
 
 , every letter in the last part appears, in order, in every other letter position of the first part of the entry. Like so:
 
  P
 
 R
 
  O
 
 T
 
  E
 
 S
 
  T
 
 POET. Or
 
  S
 
 W
 
  I
 
 N
 
  G
 
 I
 
  N
 
 G SIGN
 
  .
 
 Or, say it with me,
 
  S
 
 M
 
  A
 
 L
 
  L
 
 T
 
  O
 
 W
 
  N
 
 SALON. And that’s the pattern.


 My favorite, I think, was 40A,
 
  R
 
 E
 
  I
 
 N
 
  D
 
 E
 
  E
 
 R RIDE. I have a mental image of reindeer from their participation in the opening ceremony of the 1994 Lillehammer Olympics.

 They’re not that big, are they? I feel a reindeer might come to about midthigh on Erik Agard. So I’m going to say that what’s meant here is a sleigh ride in the silence of the
 
  Finnmark
 
 landscape.

 That revealer, at 121A? “How lucky was that?” If you’ve ever almost been hit by a piano falling out a window or won the lottery, then you know this expression.
 
 Oh, also,
 
 
 the letters in the first part of the theme answer, which form the second part of each theme answer, are in the 1, 3, 5, 7 position and so on.
 
 WHAT ARE THE ODDS?


 Periodic reminder: the
 
  Crossword Puzzle Collaboration Directory
 
 is a resource for puzzlemakers from underrepresented groups. If you are interested in writing crosswords (or other puzzles) and would like some tips on getting started, someone to critique your work or someone to collaborate with, give it a look.

 Subscribers can
 
  take a peek at the answer key
 
 .


 Trying to get back to the puzzle page?
 
  Right here
 
 .


 What did you think?

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Food Matters


 The social media phenomenon of documenting seemingly unappetizing cuisine is helping us rethink what dishes are not only worth eating — but venerating.


 By
 
 
  Ligaya Mishan
 

 THE FISH REAR UP from the pie, almost a school of them, whole silvery pilchards — a type of herring — half buried, half erupting from the crust. Only their heads, eyes entreating the heavens, are visible, although some versions of the dish let the frilly tails surface, too, as if the fish were trapped midswim by an avalanche of dough. The rest of their bodies lie in the depths of the pie, leaching their brine into a rich custard, larded with bacon and hard-boiled eggs and spiked with mustard.


 Such is the surreal glory of stargazy pie — also known as starry-gazy-pie — so called because the fish’s eyes appear to be “studying the stars,” according to the English antiquarian James Orchard Halliwell-Phillipps’s Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial Words (1846). Originally an English recipe from the cobblestone coastal village of Mousehole, Cornwall, the dish is believed to date to a season of famine in the 16th century, when (the story goes) one gutsy fisherman took to the stormy seas and hauled in enough marine life to feed the town. Its residents were so hungry that the bounty was baked all at once, in a single pie. Every year, on Dec. 23, locals celebrate the survival of their ancestors with a festival dedicated to the dish.


 Beyond Cornwall, stargazy pie is largely unknown, even to many Brits. In China, however, this obscure regional specialty has become a subject of fascination, an exemplar of all that the Chinese find baffling about Western cooking. In 2012, an account on Douban — a social network focused on lifestyle and culture and whose reach as of September exceeds 300 million active monthly users — started sharing photographs from the British supper-club chef
 
  Kerstin Rodgers’s blog
 
 , including her version of stargazy pie. Commenters found the dish bizarre and suggested that the fish’s dignity had been compromised, although whether this was intended as criticism or comedy isn’t entirely clear. (Fish heads are featured without controversy in Chinese cooking, so perhaps the outrage was the dough.)


 The Chinese have a name for food that challenges squeamish sensibilities:
 
  hei an liao li
 
 , roughly translated as “dark cuisine.” The term, of relatively recent vintage, is derived from “
 
  Chuuka Ichiban!
 
 ” (“China’s Number One!”), a 1990s Japanese manga by Etsushi Ogawa, about a boy chef in 19th-century China who battles an underground crime syndicate called the Dark Cooking Society. Taken from this context, “dark” retains the sense of operating in the shadows and going beyond the bounds of what’s officially permitted. The term isn’t necessarily a pejorative; it’s used as an affectionate label for dishes that at first glance may seem off-putting, even downright alien, but whose very transgressiveness speaks to their charm.

 “Dark cuisine” is a supple phrase, not confined to unfamiliar foreign delicacies. “It can refer to anything that’s particularly hard to swallow,” explained
 
  Jenny Gao
 
 , a Shanghai- and Los Angeles-based chef who was born in Chengdu, in southwestern China, and raised primarily in Canada. It applies to street food from stalls of suspect hygiene as well as “amateur disasters,” she said, but also, and more strikingly, to a trend of “deliberately made creative food that’s unexpected.” Under the flag of dark cuisine, home cooks and chefs alike have been experimenting with dubious combinations of ingredients: an omelet enclosing fresh kiwi wedges; granules of ban lan gen (isatis root), a bitter herbal medicine, dissolved into instant-noodle broth; a cloud of cotton candy melting into a bowl of zha jiang mian (a thick gravy of ground meat and soybean paste over noodles). This is public and performative, the results posted online for humor and shock value — although they’re also consumed, which is part of the joke: Look what
 
  I
 
 ate.


 Some proponents of dark cuisine seek to maximize gruesomeness, as with cookies shaped into cut-off fingers and daubed with bloodlike jam. But others see the potential for achieving actual deliciousness: Gao first heard of dark cuisine last summer, when an employee at an ice cream shop in Chongqing was spotted spooning chile crisp — a scarlet oil heavy with crushed chiles, shallots fried into sweet shards and numbing Sichuan peppercorns — over vanilla soft serve. Once tasted, it wasn’t so outlandish: Hot and cold, crunch and cream, salt and sugar are natural partners. Gao was so taken by the juxtaposition of flavors and texture that she presented the same dessert at a launch party in Hollywood for her
 
  Fly by Jing
 
 brand of chile crisp.


 The embrace of such unorthodox pairings may seem frivolous, a passing fancy rather than a sign of some cultural shift. It’s worth remembering, however, that historically, the average citizen in China has not been rewarded for going against the grain, and the government still patrols internet activity. So there’s something slightly rebellious and restive about making absurd, potentially inedible food out of a few carelessly slapped-together ingredients, defying the strictures of centuries of elaborate Chinese cooking.

 IN THE WEST, there’s no true correlative to dark cuisine. Gao suggested a link to the towering milkshakes that briefly dominated Instagram a few years ago, with cupcakes sprouting from the froth like Athena from the head of Zeus. But for Westerners and particularly Americans, reared on individualism and the myth of the maverick who wins by breaking the rules, such oddball creations don’t carry much cultural freight. They’re just stoner food, thrown together at midnight or invented by amateur cooks out of desperation on food-competition shows such as MTV’s defunct “
 
  Snack-Off
 
 ,” which earlier this decade encouraged the creation of intentionally yucky snacks, perhaps worst among them a creation that was cake filled with a Twinkie’s marshmallowy guts, then topped with candied apple and beef.

 More subversive are the minimalist and impeccably haute plates designed for Instagram by Chef Jacques La Merde (
 
  @chefjacqueslamerde
 
 , the alias of the Toronto-based chef Christine Flynn) made up almost entirely of junk food, such as Velveeta foam, spherified Gatorade and Doritos crushed into a decorative “soil.” At the opposite end of the spectrum are the “struggle plates” highlighted by the account
 
  @cookingforbae
 
 , memorializing the failures of home cooks: plasticky processed cheese slices wilted over French fries, perhaps, or octopus tentacles swarming from the cavity of a chicken (a picture that was, indeed, reposted by a Chinese Instagrammer with the hashtag
 
  #darkcuisine
 
 ). While the satire of these accounts isn’t particularly profound — you get the point after a few posts — they share the same mission as dark cuisine, gleefully undermining the idea of conventionally beautiful (and therefore worthy) food.


 A similar interrogation takes place at the
 
  Disgusting Food Museum
 
 , which opened in October 2018 in Malmo, Sweden, and recently mounted a two-month exhibition in Los Angeles. The collection of 80 items from 41 countries includes the likes of salty licorice from Scandinavia, sticky natto (fermented soybeans) from Japan and funky huitlacoche (a fungus that feeds on corn) from Mexico. Viewers are invited to sample certain dishes, with a complimentary barf bag in hand, just in case. “I want people to question what they find disgusting,” the lead curator, Samuel West, a Swedish clinical and organizational psychologist, has said.


 Still, the museum’s self-proclaimed “disgusting” holdings cite China more than any other country. Among the delights attributed to the nation are an anemic-pink coil of bull penis and rice wine infused with the corpses of baby mice, neither of which is actually consumed on a regular basis, and hardly the equivalent of the museum’s American contributions: root beer and Pop-Tarts. Even within China, some diners might look skeptically at mouse wine and call it dark cuisine; as Gao pointed out, China is so vast, what’s happily eaten in one province might be shunned as strange in another.


 Rodgers, the maker of the stargazy pie that won fame in China, wondered, in a 2017 conversation on her blog with the Chinese-cookbook author
 
  Fuchsia Dunlop
 
 , why her dish had caused such a fuss. Dunlop replied, “You are just getting a taste of what it’s like the other way round” — the way the West routinely levies mockery at Eastern dishes. Earlier this decade,
 
  an online report
 
 on CNN placed pidan, or century egg, a snack and ingredient beloved in China and throughout Southeast Asia — the egg preserved in slaked lime until the whites brown and the yolks turn green — on a list of the world’s “most ‘revolting’ ” foods. Pidan is enshrined at the Disgusting Food Museum, too. The American chef
 
  David Chang
 
 addresses such prejudice directly in the title of his Netflix series “
 
  Ugly Delicious
 
 ” (2018). In sampling regional delicacies from Japan, China, Mexico and the American South, he argues not simply that seemingly ugly dishes can, in fact, taste good, but that ugliness itself is a sham: a cultural construct. When Chang, who is of Korean descent, was growing up in Virginia in the 1980s, his peers thought the food he ate at home and brought for school lunches was “gross,” as he’s recalled. Now, they clamor for similar dishes at his 12 restaurants worldwide. Eating, one of the most basic human acts, can separate as much as connect us.


 But consider again the stargazy pie. For diners from both East and West, whole sardines on a plate, however beady-eyed, would be unlikely to inspire dread; nor would a pie with an untroubled crust, seafood tidily tucked beneath. It’s the sight of the fish gasping to escape their pastry tomb that startles and thrills. The dish belongs to a category of food that compels us in part by repelling us — and draws us now perhaps more than ever, in an age when we’re relentlessly inundated with images of gorgeous food, when social media’s fantasy record of the way we eat is a ceaseless slide show of ingredients arrayed and lit down to the last centimeter.


 Stargazy pie makes no accommodation for contemporary notions of what looks delicious or makes a dish an object of status or desire. It’s liberatingly unbeautiful; it doesn’t hide what it is. Instead, it offers the starkest, simplest, most comforting vision of how to live: Here is fish, here is pie. Let’s eat.


 Photo assistant: Matthew Bernucca. Stylist’s assistant: Stephanie Redhead. Octopus: Shipwreck Seafood, Brooklyn, N.Y.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Daniel Victor
  
 

 Naomi Osaka, the half-Haitian, half-Japanese tennis champion, is the star of a new Japanese anime-style advertisement.


 The problem? The cartoon Ms. Osaka bears little resemblance to her real, biracial self.


 Her skin was unmistakably lightened, and her hair style changed — a depiction that has prompted criticism in Japan, where she has
 
  challenged a longstanding sense of cultural and racial homogeneity
 
 .


 The ad — unveiled this month by Nissin, one of the world’s largest instant-noodle brands — features Ms. Osaka and Kei Nishikori, Japan’s top-ranked male tennis player, in a cartoon drawn by a team commissioned by Nissin. The cartoon was based on the work of Takeshi Konomi, a well-known manga artist whose series “The Prince of Tennis” is popular in Japan.

 Ms. Osaka, who faces Elina Svitolina in an Australian Open quarterfinal match on Wednesday, and Mr. Konomi have not publicly commented on the reactions to the ad.

 But a Nissin spokesman apologized in an email on Tuesday for “the confusion and discomfort.”


 The spokesman, Daisuke Okabayashi, said that the characters had been developed in line with Mr. Konomi’s anime series and that the company had communicated with Ms. Osaka’s representatives.


 “There is no intention of whitewashing,” he said. “We accept that we are not sensitive enough and will pay more attention to diversity issue in the future.”


 After the ad was first published online, people on social media, including many fans of Ms. Osaka’s, said they were deeply disappointed.

 Baye McNeil, an author who has lived in Japan for 15 years, said he didn’t understand why the ad would “erase her black features and project this image of pretty much the prototypical anime girl-next-door character.”


 Ms. Osaka’s rise into a beloved national figure has been particularly exciting for biracial people in Japan, known as hafus, who have long battled for acceptance, he said.


 “Making her look white just tells these people that what they are isn’t good enough,” Mr. McNeil said.


 Ms. Osaka was born in Japan to a Haitian-American father and a Japanese mother, and moved to the United States when she was 3. Although she isn’t fluent in Japanese, often responding to questions from Japanese reporters in English, she has tweeted about her love of manga and Japanese movies.


 Ranked fourth in the world at just 21, she’s already among Japan’s most accomplished tennis players ever. She became the first Japanese-born tennis player to win a Grand Slam singles championship in September when she
 
  defeated Serena Williams in the U.S. Open
 
 , a victory that supercharged her celebrity ascent.


 That win prompted a cartoon in an Australian newspaper that was criticized for its
 
  depiction of Ms. Williams
 
 , which many saw as a racist caricature. While most of the condemnation focused on how the Australian cartoonist drew Ms. Williams, critics also noted that Ms. Osaka was depicted with blond hair and light skin.


 Black characters aren’t frequently found in anime, but artists in the medium have
 
  successfully depicted their skin tones before
 
 .

 “When there is a black character, it’s clearly a black character,” Mr. McNeil said.


 The discussion of biracial identity in Japan got a boost in 2015 when Ariana Miyamoto, who is half-Japanese, half-African-American,
 
  won the Miss Universe Japan pageant
 
 . She used her fame to discuss the plight of “hafus,” but some in Japan were unwilling to accept her as a model of Japanese beauty.
 


 In interviews, Ms. Osaka has embraced her multicultural background.


 “Maybe it’s because they can’t really pinpoint what I am,”
 
  she said in 2016
 
 , “so it’s like anybody can cheer for me.”

 An earlier version of this article misstated who drew the anime-style advertisement that featured Naomi Osaka with lighter skin. It was a team that Nissin commissioned, not the manga artist Takeshi Konomi, though the ad was based on Mr. Konomi’s work.

 Makiko Inoue contributed reporting.










 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Ben Kenigsberg
  
 

 
  Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at
 
 
  
   nytimes.com/reviews/movies
  
 
 
  .
 


 
  THE COMPLETE LONE WOLF AND CUB
 
 at Japan Society (Jan. 25-26). After being set up, a former shogun executioner (Tomisaburo Wakayama) strikes out as a roving, freelance assassin. He offers his infant son a choice between a sword and a ball to play with, and the child, too young even to speak, reaches for the shiny weapon — sealing his fate to tag along. Japan Society is screening this run of six films, adapted from a blockbuster manga series and
 
  a clear inspiration for Quentin Tarantino’s “Kill Bill,”
 
 in marathon form.
 
 
  212-715-1258,
 
 
  
   japansociety.org
  
 

 
  EROTIC JOURNEYS: EM(M)ANUELLE &amp; JUST JAECKIN
 
 at the Quad Cinema (Jan. 25-Feb. 7). After hosting a series of (mostly)
 
  serious-minded X-rated films
 
 that expanded the mainstream, the Quad turns to soft-core qua soft-core with the hit 1970s skin flick “Emmanuelle” (starting on Friday) and the movies it spawned. In the original, the title character, played by the Dutch actress
 
  Sylvia Kristel
 
 , is guided by both men and women toward sexual fulfillment in Thailand, in ways that, to put it mildly, do not pass contemporary standards for gender or cultural sensitivity, or consent. Sequels and knockoffs (some of which omit an “m” in the heroine’s name) follow on the docket, along with other films by the first movie’s director, whose authorial signature — “un film de Just Jaeckin” — has to rank among the most guffaw-worthy credits in screen history.
 
 
  212-255-2243,
 
 
  
   quadcinema.com
  
 

 
  [
 
 
  
   Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.
  
 
 
  ]
 


 
  HOU HSIAO-HSIEN IN THE 21ST CENTURY
 
 at the Metrograph (Jan. 25-Feb. 3). Before the 21st century, American champions of this Taiwanese director spent years bemoaning that his films went unreleased in the United States. That streak ended when
 
  “Millennium Mambo”
 
 (on Friday and Saturday) — a visually rhapsodic, sidelong look at youth and anomie — sneaked into theaters at the end of 2003, two years after its Cannes premiere. The subsequent
 
  “Three Times”
 
 (on Saturday and Sunday) — which proceeds in three chronologically disordered segments (1966, 1911, 2005) in styles suited to each era — is an ideal introduction to Hou’s work. And his Yasujiro Ozu homage
 
  “Café Lumiere”
 
 (on Feb. 3 and 4) is one of the greatest films about the paradoxical isolation of city life.
 
 
  212-660-0312,
 
 
  
   metrograph.com
  
 







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Children’s Books
 


 By
 
 
  Jenny Rosenstrach
 

 It’s almost too easy to write children’s books in which cats and dogs are the heroes and protagonists. By definition, our favorite pets are already amazing characters with distinct and hilarious personalities who loom large in our lives and imagination. But this spring brings a few standouts that young picture book listeners and readers will love.


 You know that dream you have where you’re trying to get somewhere, but every time you think you’ve arrived, a trapdoor flies open or something slips from your hands or you’re a split second too late to catch the train? The adorably frustrating
 
  HOW TO GIVE YOUR CAT A BATH: In Five Easy Steps (Tundra, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 3 to 7),
 
 written by Nicola Winstanley (“Cinnamon Baby”) and illustrated by John Martz (“A Cat Named Tim”), is the preschool version of that. The mission is simple: An ambitious little girl with two bright pink buns wants to give her cat, Mr. Flea, a bath. The execution of this plan? Not so simple.


 There’s the matter of water temperature and level, not to mention the fact that we are talking about, um, a cat. Mr. Flea, like most members of his species, isn’t a huge fan of getting wet, and before we know it, five steps become 10-plus steps, as Mr. Flea’s owner gives chase around the house, scarfing down cookies (a crucial step, naturally) and destroying the house along the way. Reminiscent of the “If You Give a Moose a Muffin” series, it will have young readers slapping their foreheads in exasperation, but will reward them with a sweet, funny ending. (As well as a lesson: Sometimes the easiest way to do something is the most obvious.) Martz’s colorful line drawings match the happy, manic energy.

 Unlike many of the cats who appear in children’s books (and New Yorker cartoons for that matter), the protagonist of
 
  BRUNO, THE STANDING CAT (Random House, 48 pp. $17.99; ages 3 to 7),
 
 written by Nadine Robert and illustrated by Jean Jullien, possesses none of the stereotypical calculating aloofness that makes our feline friends such ready-made caricatures. What he does have, however, is a very special trait: He can stand upright on two legs, just like a human!

 After Bruno shows up in a cardboard box on young Peter’s doorstep, the two become fast friends, as they romp through parks and play house together and celebrate all the remarkable things Bruno can do that typical cats cannot. Bruno can’t chase mice, but he can ride a skateboard. He can’t chase a ball of yarn, but he can pour a cup of tea. He doesn’t scratch his claws everywhere, but he knows how to blow a bubble with bubble gum. Upside down! Peter takes tremendous pride in his new friend’s uniqueness, and the evergreen message is as satisfying as ever: Fitting in is
 
  soooo
 
 boring! Fans of the French illustrator Jullien will recognize his signature graphic images and his gift for infusing humor into the simplest of renderings. It’s hard to look at Bruno’s expressive yellow eyeballs and not laugh.

 Drooly fool. Sardine stinker. Sheepskin with legs. Werewolf. Wet mop. Mangy. Shredhead. These are only a fraction of the words used to address the poor, nameless hero of
 
  DUMPSTER DOG! (Enchanted Lion, 64 pp., $17.99; ages 7 to 10),
 
 written by Colas Gutman and illustrated by Marc Boutavant; translated by Claudia Bedrick and Allison M. Charette. This chapter book — already popular in France, where it has been made into a hit TV show — is for kids who can appreciate a little more action and a lot more voice in their reading. (There’s more than a hint of Lemony Snicket’s dark hilarity in Gutman’s writing.)


 Born in a garbage can and best friends with Flat Cat (so named for being run over by a truck at 3 months old), our friend may be the most lovable ding-a-ling to come along since Amelia Bedelia. He dreams of finding an owner even while he’s not entirely sure what an owner is. After some hapless adventures as a failed guard dog, he finds his forever home by doing what dogs do best: being resilient and remaining loyal to those who count on him. Boutavant’s characters aren’t your typical cute and cuddly types — they’re rough around the edges and a little off. (Think George Booth’s famously agitated pets.) In other words, they look exactly how you want them to look.

 In
 
  OLIVE &amp; PEKOE: In Four Short Walks (Greenwillow, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 3 to 7),
 
 written by Jacky Davis (the Ladybug Girl series) and illustrated by Giselle Potter (“This Is My Dollhouse”), the title characters have their differences, like most friends. Olive is old and wise, Pekoe is young and starry-eyed. Olive is patient and calm, Pekoe is excitable and rambunctious. Olive sees the big picture, Pekoe has a hard time seeing beyond what’s right in front of him, as when they encounter a mean dog and rowdy play at the dog park. “Pekoe is bothered by some of their rough behavior, Olive understands that most dogs are all bark and no bite.”


 The adventures of the two mixed-breed dogs are organized not by four acts but by four walks, and we get to watch the affectionate dynamic unfold between the friends as they walk in the woods, console each other during a thunderstorm and encounter a chipmunk. On that last walk: “Olive is not impressed to see a chipmunk darting through the leaves. Pekoe can’t believe how great it is that the world has chipmunks in it.” It’s a good reminder that one of the strongest cases for having a friend who is different is that you get to see the world through a completely different set of eyes. Potter’s artwork will remind you of classic Maira Kalman: warm, colorful, somehow both fanciful and sophisticated.

 We’ve all heard it before: Live with your pet long enough and you start to resemble each other — maybe even rub off on each other. In the charming
 
  MY CAT LOOKS LIKE MY DAD (Owlkids, 32 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8),
 
 by Thao Lam (“Wallpaper”), the narrator walks us through how similar her mop-headed father is to their lazy, shaggy cat. They look alike, they share an affection for milk and sardines (“ewwww”); they stretch early in the morning and nap in the afternoon; they’re afraid of heights and aren’t exactly the tidiest members of the house.


 A special twist at the end serves to remind us that family can be defined in many ways beyond blood and physical resemblance, and when you spend enough time with someone, share a house and meals and the most mundane moments of day-to-day life, that’s as good a definition as any. Lam’s brightly colored paper-collage illustrations are unique and silly, a winning combination.

 Jenny Rosenstrach writes about books and food on her blog, Dinner: A Love Story. Her most recent book is “How to Celebrate Everything.”


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Children’s Books
 


 By
 
 
  Laurel Snyder
 

 Countless picture books follow the same narrative structure, in which a character faces a challenge and then — at the end of approximately 500 words — overcomes that challenge, or doesn’t. We call this
 
  story
 
 . “Read me a story,” a child might beg, and so we do.


 But not all picture books are
 
  stories
 
 in the traditional sense, and often poetry is the tool that frees an author from the expectations of conflict and resolution. By trusting language, form, rhythm or sound to hold the reader’s focus, a poet is able to slow down or speed up, to observe or reflect. Picture books in verse can meditate or meander, imagine or reminisce, examine one small aspect of the world carefully, or elicit deep emotion.


 One thing that sets picture books apart from titles for older readers is that we often share them with another person. In
 
  BOOM, BELLOW, BLEAT: Animal Poems for Two or More Voices (WordSong, 32 pp., $19.95; ages 3 to 6),
 
 Georgia Heard’s text leans into this interactive experience, creating the space for distinct speakers in each poem. Each is intended as a sort of duet, with the text set in different colors to differentiate the alternating parts.
 


 The book relies heavily on the humor and child-friendly simplicity of animal noises, but the noises animals make are not always what you’d expect. In “We Don’t Say Ribbit,” a frog and toad offer the less expected noises they might actually make in the wild, from “quonk” to “errrgh,” almost certain to entice laughter from young readers.
 

 In several of these poems, the language is more mature, as in “Flight of the Honeybees,” where “Pale celery parasols” or “yellow petaled broccoli” may be a challenge to younger readers. But the beauty of poetry for small children is that the sounds of words can be appealing long before their meanings are fully understood.


 Many of these poems also incorporate refrains, allowing a young listener to repeat after another reader, as in “Song Thief,” where the second reader, as mockingbird, repeats everything the first reader has just said. “Why is it / why is it / what I sing / what I sing / you sing too?” Heard’s engaging poems, paired with Aaron DeWitt’s bright digital images of the natural world, are designed to bring readers together, and with an informative author’s note on various elements of the natural world, they may also find a welcome role in the classroom.


 “Each tree offers / a story…” begins Verlie Hutchens and Jing Jing Tsong’s
 
  TREES (Beach Lane, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8)
 
 and what unfolds is exactly that, a series of brief character studies, as page after page, readers are introduced to a surprisingly varied cast of arboreal personalities.
 


 Gracefully, each spread offers a distinct new friend for young readers. Pussy willow is shy, waiting for the one week in spring when “kitten velvet buds / adorn her modest twigs.” By contrast, White Pine is an “unruly uncle,” with his “buttons akilter” and “shaggy hair unkempt.” Each tree is memorable, and Hutchens’s vivid descriptions are full of movement and relatable moments. Tsong’s colorful illustrations invite readers to peer from a range of vantage points and angles, as if looking down through the foliage. Young readers on walks may well experience the canopy above them a little differently after encountering the trees through Hutchens’s and Tsong’s eyes.

 Yet the book may do little to help them see people differently, since “Trees” also reinforces traditional gender roles. Female-identified trees are described as “silly” as they dance on “tippy toes” and sport “baubles.” Meanwhile, the masculine trees are “strong” and “mighty” as well as “wise.” An unfortunate choice for a book that might easily have resisted such bias.

 In reading poetry, we are sometimes so lulled by rhythm and sound that we forget to pay attention to meaning. This can be especially true with familiar poems, as they become ingrained in our consciousness. A picture book version of Robert Frost’s
 
  THE ROAD NOT TAKEN (Familius, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8)
 
 , with illustrations by Vivian Mineker, does a wonderful job of reintroducing a well-known poem without altering a single word. The choice to redivide stanzas and to rebreak lines, as well as to set the poem in the contemporary-feeling world of Mineker’s soft palette, invites a fresh reading.
 


 In the beginning of the book, a young boy with a backpack stands near his dog, at a fork in the road. “Two roads diverged in a yellow wood.” As the text reflects on this moment, we view him from a distance, and then from far above. We witness the boy’s indecision, and finally his seemingly arbitrary choice.


 From there, the book continues, and we journey along with the poem and the boy, as he grows, goes to school, chooses a career and builds a family. Finally, at the poem’s poignant end, we face the old man who has been reciting the poem and reminiscing all along, surrounded by his grandchildren. “And that has made all the difference.”


 This is a book that begs rereading. Visually, it’s unclear what beckons the boy along his initial path, and there’s a sort of randomness, a meandering mazelike quality to the artwork, if an emotional inevitability to the poem’s conclusion. Robert Frost might well have approved that ambiguity.

 “This is for the unforgettable / the swift and sweet ones / who hurdled history / and opened a world / of possible.” The beginning of Kwame Alexander and Kadir Nelson’s
 
  THE UNDEFEATED (Versify/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 and up)
 
 feels anthemic.
 
  Listen up,
 
 the book seems to say,
 
  I’m going to share something important
 
 .
 

 What follows is a powerful tribute to the African-American experience, replete with joy and pride in the accomplishments of individual artists and athletes, leaders and thinkers. But the book also communicates a strong sense of the suffering without which this history would be incomplete. Alexander’s resonant twisting language, and Nelson’s rich painterly style, serve to capture not just individuals but the community as a whole.


 “The ones who survived / America / by any means necessary.” The book continues. “And the ones who didn’t.” This second line of text is set starkly against blank white pages, demanding that the reader consider the lives lost and the voices silenced by our history.


 We see this same kind of restraint a little further along, in the startling repetition of “This is for the unspeakable.” Three spreads repeat this simple line, allowing the reader to sit with images of unforgivable acts from both past and present, inviting us to silently bear witness when words fail.


 Elsewhere, the text swells again, as words and art offer a litany of historical figures and important moments, filling the ears with rhythms that demand attention, calling on poetry of the past. “This is for the unbelievable / The We Real Cool ones. / This is for the unbending. / The black as the night is beautiful ones.” These lines sing, and the accompanying paintings feel like a walk through a portrait gallery.


 Poetry knows when to lean forward and when to pull back, and in “The Undefeated,” Alexander has walked that line perfectly. This book will fill readers with a sense of the wealth and the cost of history.

 Laurel Snyder is the author of many books for young readers. Her chapter book “Charlie and Mouse: Even Better” will be published next month.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Match Book
 


 By
 
 
  Nicole Lamy
 

 
  Dear Match Book,
 


 I like to read nonfiction books that have been turned into movies. I don’t care which order I encounter them in: If I read the book first, I like to follow up with the movie to see how the filmmakers streamlined the plot, but I’ll also go from movie to book. (I recently watched “A Civil Action,” then found the book by Jonathan Harr at a used-book store.)


 I’m rarely disappointed by the literary counterparts, one exception being “Julie and Julia,” by Julie Powell — I far preferred the film.


 I’ve read Terry Ryan’s memoir, “The Prize Winner of Defiance, Ohio,” which I thought was superb, but I haven’t seen the movie yet. I enjoyed both versions of Erich von Däniken’s classic “Chariots of the Gods” (I watched the movie first).


 I recently picked up “The Monuments Men,” by Robert M. Edsel, since I have already seen the film. I’m also looking forward to reading and watching “The Radium Girls,” by Kate Moore, as well as to tackling both page and screen versions of “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,” by Rebecca Skloot.

 Can you recommend any other nonfiction books that have been made into movies?


 KRISTINE KADLEC
 
 MILWAUKEE


 
  Dear Kristine,
 


 The mind’s eye of a reader — what allows you to picture, say, the views from the Pacific Crest Trail as conjured by Cheryl Strayed in “Wild,” or the graffitied walls of the bus-turned-shelter described by Jon Krakauer in “Into the Wild” (both ideal adds to your page-to-screen list) — might also hold some back from appreciating adaptations: Once built, the sets readers have constructed in their minds can be hard to strike. Your unique flexibility, though — a kind of double vision — allows you to see the distinct strengths and architectures of each form.


 
  Now Playing
 


 Given Hollywood’s penchant for recycling narratives, examples that fit your search abound. I’ll mention just a couple of handfuls. Start with two 2018 big-screen adaptations with excellent source material and Academy Award nominations. Spike Lee’s “BlacKkKlansman” sprang from Ron Stallworth’s “Black Klansman,” a memoir as lean and brisk as a screenplay. In it the first black cadet to become a police officer in Colorado Springs, in 1974, details his strange and dangerous undercover investigation of the Ku Klux Klan. Identity, as seen from the opposite side of the law, also plays a part in “Can You Ever Forgive Me?,” the delectable autobiography by a literary biographer turned literary forger, Lee Israel, adapted into a movie of the same name directed by Marielle Heller.


 
  Self, Made
 


 Skillful adaptations of (still more) personal narratives, which provide rich source material for filmmakers, can link the two types of storytelling inextricably. I still hold a grudge against Robert De Niro for the way he treated Leonardo DiCaprio, as Tobias Wolff, while playing his stepfather in the adaptation of Wolff’s memoir, “This Boy’s Life.” And just as Penny Marshall’s movie version of “Awakenings” led to a wider appreciation of Oliver Sacks’s writing, I wish that the director Jane Campion’s intimate “An Angel at My Table,” an adaptation of three volumes of the New Zealander Janet Frame’s memoirs (including scenes from her time in a psychiatric hospital), had led to a broader and more sustained readerly embrace of all of Frame’s vibrant and contemplative work.


 And in another cinematic take on a young woman’s personal account of her stay in a psychiatric institution — Susanna Kaysen’s “Girl, Interrupted” — Angelina Jolie’s portrayal of one of Kaysen’s fellow patients won her an Academy Award.

 An even more extreme confinement marks “The Diving Bell and the Butterfly,” Jean-Dominique Bauby’s slim book, which he composed post-stroke by blinking his words to an assistant, one letter at a time. The visually arresting movie, directed by the painter Julian Schnabel, shifts the key characters in Bauby’s life, making for interesting contrast.


 
  The Big Picture
 


 Finally, the narrative sweep of books on history, space, sports, etc. have led to a string of big-budget feature film successes: Laura Hillenbrand’s “Seabiscuit” and “Unbroken,” Margot Lee Shetterly’s “Hidden Figures,” and Doris Kearns Goodwin’s “Team of Rivals,” which became Steven Spielberg’s “Lincoln.” This category also includes two books that made the most surprising (to me anyway) and smooth transitions to film: Michael Lewis’s “Moneyball” and “The Big Short.” Chalk it up to movie magic.


 
  Yours truly,
 
 
 
  Match Book
 


 
  Check out Match Book’s earlier recommendations
 
 
  
   here
  
 
 
  .
 



 Nicole Lamy is a writer and book critic, and the former books editor of The Boston Globe. Follow her on Twitter @NicoleALamy.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Children’s Books
 


 By
 
 
  Ibi Zoboi
 

 African-American picture books have always been successful at capturing the breadth, depth and beauty of the black experience, allowing children to gain much-needed access to the strong legacy and vibrant history of African-American art and storytelling. But how we present this story is always undergoing revision and refinement, as four new books — from a closer view of plantation life to a visually rich depiction of the history of hip-hop — show. In these books, word and art combine to give us fresh insight into the lives, creativity and achievements of a truly resilient and profound people.


 James E. Ransome’s
 
  THE BELL RANG (Atheneum, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8)
 
 beautifully captures several days in the life of an enslaved girl living with her family on a plantation. Plantation life is seen through the innocent yet fiercely observant eyes of the young, nameless narrator. Each day begins with the ringing of a bell, a warm hug, a loving kiss on the forehead or a gentle touch on the shoulder, followed by a simple goodbye from her big brother, Ben. Ransome doesn’t shy away from the trauma of slavery, but he balances the terror that sits at the core of the story with moments of joy, skillfully painting a subtle smile across the young girl’s face when she’s given a doll, or the shadows of children running, skipping rope and playing hopscotch.


 We don’t witness the daily, backbreaking work in the field, and a whipping happens offstage, but we do see the pervasive, watchful overseers, with their guns and their hound dog. At one point Ransome paints tears streaming down Mama’s face, Daddy’s bowed head against a wall with our narrator leaning against him, and an overseer with clenched fists standing in a doorway. “No sun in the sky. Mama crying. No Ben. Daddy crying. Ben ran,” he writes.

 The book’s color palette, strong on grays and pale blues, conveys its honest yet hopeful depiction of its young narrator’s situation. We are left with the question, Will she run, too, some day? In “The Bell Rang” Ransome has given us a bittersweet slice of plantation life, one in which innocence, familial love and safety are juxtaposed with pain, loss and the resilience of the enslaved.

 
  LET ’ER BUCK! George Fletcher, the People’s Champion (Carolrhoda, 40 pp., $18.99; ages 4 to 8),
 
 written by Vaunda Micheaux Nelson (“Bad News for Outlaws”) and illustrated by the Newbery Honor winner Gordon C. James (“Crown: An Ode to the Fresh Cut”), tells the story of the black cowboy George Fletcher, whose journey began when his family set out on the Oregon Trail from their Kansas town. After they met with racism, young George found solace among the children on the Umatilla Indian Reservation in eastern Oregon. There, he nurtured his love of riding with a make-believe bronco, but over time, the tribal horsemen taught George how to “buck.” He became a star at local rodeos, even while being shut out of more popular ones, which opposed black cowboys competing against white cowboys. But in 1911 the 21-year-old George competed against the fiercest cowboys in the Northwest: the Nez Percé Indian Jackson Sundown and the white rancher John Spain.


 What follows is a detailed account, rendered adroitly through Nelson’s clear prose and James’s elegant paintings, of one of the most important rodeo shows in American history, which established Fletcher as the “people’s champion” — even though the judge declared Spain the winner. With its energetic pairing of words and art, “Let ’er Buck!” comes alive to unearth an unsung American hero.

 Gwendolyn Brooks, who died in 2000, was one of the most important, prolific and distinguished poets of her time, and as with most brilliant artists, her creative force was evident when she was a child. In
 
  A SONG FOR GWENDOLYN BROOKS (Sterling, 32 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8)
 
 , Alice Faye Duncan and Xia Gordon unfurl Brooks’s evolution from a precocious girl growing up in Chicago through her boundary-breaking accomplishments, including the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1950. “Sing a song for Gwendolyn Brooks. Sing it loud — a Chicago blues,” Duncan’s text begins. Gordon’s soft, velvety, earth-toned illustrations convey the sweetness and innocence of Gwendolyn’s imagination, set against the vibrant urban landscape of her childhood. Duncan mimics the short, poignant stanzas and lyrical observations in many of Brooks’s poems — a few of which are placed throughout, beginning with “The Busy Clock,” written in 1928 when she was 11. Yet it is the way Duncan conveys the unwavering family support of Brooks’s creativity that most stands out. “Her parents are wise and see the light. … Gwendolyn is free to sit and think,” she writes. Brooks writes and rewrites a poem titled “Ambition” between 1930 and 1933, as she went from 13 to 16 years old, and Duncan uses it to illustrate the persistence, isolation and deep self-reflection that poetry required of Brooks. As she goes on to achieve fame, we are reminded that the joyous freedom of her work traces back to the remarkable achievements of a child poet.

 
  THE ROOTS OF RAP: 16 Bars on the Pillars of Hip-Hop (Little Bee, 32 pp., $18.99; ages 4 to 8)
 
 captures a specific African-American experience — one that is rooted in jazz, hip-hop and the liveliness of urban culture. Carole Boston Weatherford’s 16 bars of homage to the history of hip-hop accompany the celebrated illustrator Frank Morrison’s pulsing and vibrant images, which not only convey the development of hip-hop, they dance on the page.


 The opening pages are a tip of the baseball cap to the poets Langston Hughes and Paul Lawrence Dunbar, as well as to James Brown — innovators of spoken word and funk music, and thus contributors to the roots of hip-hop. Graffiti figures prominently throughout the book, too, as it is a foundational aesthetic in hip-hop, and provides a colorful backdrop to the groovin’ and movin’ black children who populate the illustrations. The well-placed centerfold illustration is of a cool and smooth DJ Kool Herc, known as the founding father of hip-hop, with his turntable and mic. “DJ Kool Herc in the Bronx, block party under his command, rocks and rocks nonstop; mic clutched in his hand,” Weatherford writes. While “The Roots of Rap” certainly does document the history of hip-hop, Weatherford forgoes the ingenious wordplay, jazzy meter and funky rhyme scheme found in early rap songs like the Sugar Hill Gang’s “Rapper’s Delight” and Kurtis Blow’s “The Breaks.” It is Morrison’s illustrations that give “The Roots of Rap” its beat, its bass, rhythm and soul.

 Ibi Zoboi is the author of the novels “American Street” and “Pride” and the editor of the anthology “Black Enough: Stories of Being Young and Black in America.”


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Maria Russo
 

 Thong and Parra have explored shapes (“Round Is a Tortilla”) and colors (“Green Is a Chile Pepper”) with adorable bilingual flair, and this take on the numbers one to 10 is just as appealing. Each object is named in Spanish, with surrounding text in English (“six flavored aguas to quench our thirst”), while Parra’s folk-art illustrations give visual clues to scenes from Latino life. Each friendly page beckons — to find stuff to count, or just to imagine lying on the beach under one of the five palapas.


 32 pp. Chronicle. $16.99. (Ages 3 to 5)


 A protective tabby named Muffin, a shop called Little Bear Bakery, a nighttime intruder. Is it a giant mouse? Or … a baby bear, helping herself to the goodies? Muffin is on the case. Sarcone-Roach (“The Bear Ate Your Sandwich”) draws her audience in with I’m-the-boss cat humor and expressive mixed-media art in shades of blue and orange, perfectly capturing moods ranging from a terrified kitty (“I was smooshed, like a muffin between the couch cushions”) to a satisfying bear hug. This delightful caper calls out for multiple readings.


 32 pp. Knopf. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)


 Admit it, that annual wish you make before blowing out the candles is a huge deal. This antic step-by-step guide at first plays it for laughs, pulling in dinosaurs, rhinos, penguins and many more creatures to sow amusing chaos. Dogs howl the birthday song off-key, and puffer fish are warned not to take a big breath. But the always vibrant Lichtenheld and Ferry turn sweetly serious for the moment we’ve been waiting for, with a gentle reminder: “Don’t forget that wish ends in ‘shhhhhh.’”


 40 pp. Putnam. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)

 This latest from Ruzzier (the Fox &amp; Chick books) has just one or two words per page. But with lovely art that turns effortlessly surreal, that’s all it takes to tell a clever, comical story of a truly mutual relationship. A boy and his dog, whose coat is the same shade of yellow as the boy’s hair, practice canine training commands like “Sit” and “Jump” that soon morph into wondrous feats like “Cook.” Before you know it, the devoted pair are off on an outer-space adventure.


 40 pp. Atheneum. $15.99. (Ages 4 to 8)


 In this exquisite story of generosity from the beloved McKissack, who died in 2017, a little boy named James Otis and his mama have fallen on hard times after his father’s death. But they keep their spirits up, focusing on a request by their minister to add to a “love box” for a family that lost everything in a fire. Harrison has created soft yet dazzling illustrations for this tribute to faith, hope and the African-American community.


 32 pp. Schwartz &amp; Wade. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)

 All apartment buildings contain tantalizing mysteries, and the red-haired girl who narrates this zany treat tells what’s behind each door in hers: a tiger, a vampire, a family that “celebrates someone’s birthday at least once a week.” Tsarfati (“An After Bedtime Story”) balances visual extravagance with sneaky insight into how kids think of home.


 40 pp. Abrams. $16.99. (Ages 4 to 8)

 The sea creatures who populate Tsurumi’s underwater idyll live harmoniously, yet each does its own thing, including Crab, who bakes cakes. But when someone dumps trash into their home, the psychedelic colors darken. What to do? The eco-friendly lesson goes down easy as “everybody comes together,” pitching in to haul the trash away, with another cake from Crab waiting at the end.


 40 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)

 Like all Tan’s genre-defying books, this one vibrates with profound questions about how we choose to live and how we treat one another. A gray-suited cicada is an office drone, insulted and underpaid by the humans; he lives in an office wall space. After 17 years, he’s shown the door. Despondent, he seems about to jump from the roof, but instead sheds the suit and becomes dozens of bright red insects, flying away to freedom.


 32 pp. Arthur A. Levine/Scholastic. $19.99. (Ages 12 and up)

 Maria Russo is the children’s books editor of the Book Review.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
 
 
  , sign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Sophie Haigney
 

 Four books by the widely celebrated artist and writer Tomi Ungerer, who
 
  died this month
 
 , will be rereleased this fall, in a revival of his oeuvre for adults.


 Fantagraphics Books, a Seattle-based publishing house that specializes in comics and graphic novels, will republish Ungerer’s “The Underground Sketchbook,” “The Party,” “Babylon” and “Adam and Eve,” beginning in the fall.


 
  [Read an
 
 
  
   appraisal of Ungerer here
  
 
 
  .]
 


 Ungerer was perhaps best known, especially in the United States, for his children’s books. He created the “Mellops” series, about a family of pigs and their misadventures, which included spelunking, striking oil and diving for treasure. He also wrote and illustrated the classic children’s book, “Crictor,” about a boa constrictor who manages to become a local hero.


 
  [Read his
 
 
  
   New York Times obituary
  
 
 
  here.]
 


 But Ungerer
 
  also worked in decidedly adult realms
 
 : he made antiwar posters during the Vietnam War, and in 1969 published “Fornicon,” a series of comical but erotic drawings that shocked the public and generated controversy when it was released. Some of his books were subsequently banned or removed from libraries. In 2015, some of this work was
 
  displayed at the Drawing Center in a survey
 
 , but much of it is out of print in the United States.

 Gary Groth, the publisher of Fantagraphics Books,
 
  interviewed
  
  
  Ungerer last year
 
 for an issue of “Comics Journal” and was surprised by how difficult it was to find Ungerer’s books. “Most of his books weren’t available in the States anymore, which was a terrible shame,” Groth said in an interview on Tuesday. “I wanted to reintroduce the American public to his work, especially his satirical works.”


 The four books will be released over the course of about 18 months, beginning with “
 
  The Underground Sketchbook
 
 ” in October. That book, first published in 1964, is an exploration of Mr. Ungerer’s subconscious and worldview. When it was first published, The New York Times described it as “modishly macabre.” Groth said that its dark humor and visual puns “really did influence a generation of comics.”


 Groth said that he is in awe not only of Ungerer’s drawing skill, but to his “conceptual skill, which was clever and ingenious and wildly outrageous.” Groth described his worldview as “nihilistic with a leavening degree of humor and pathos.”

 An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Fantagraphics Books. It is a publishing house, not an imprint.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Children’s Books
 


 By
 
 
  Caitlin  Roper
 

 I have two toddlers at home. And the littler, at 18 months, is finally eager to sit through a book, or seven, if they engage her. She climbs up next to me on the couch while I drink my morning coffee, pointing and shouting, “Book, book, book!” Or, if I’m already holding one and haven’t started quickly enough, she’ll shout: “Read! Read!” My 3-year-old is captivated by surprising or funny-sounding words, and already appreciates some of my favorite books from childhood (I have, naturally, read him nearly all of William Steig, to me the undisputed master of children’s literature), as well as many newer picture books with good stories.


 But when both kids are on my lap, the chunkier board books, with fewer words and a smaller format, are best. I’ve learned to perform, as the added theatricality both pleases my son’s desire for wordplay and sonic delight and helps keep my daughter’s attention. These new board books find ways to break down the barriers between little listeners and the books themselves, helping parents like me put on a successful story time show.


 “You can read this book in the bath,” begins
 
  HUG THIS BOOK! (Phaidon, 30 pp., $9.95; ages 0 to 4)
 
 , written by Barney Saltzberg and illustrated by Fred Benaglia. This one started out as a bigger picture book, but the new board book version is a clear winner, inviting touch and placing the youngest readers right in the middle of the action, in a familiar location. Later, they are told, “If you read this book being tickled, I dare you not to laugh.” Stimulated from awareness to empathic interest, my kids were enraptured, aware the book was talking about itself, directly to them. “You can kiss and hug and smell this book” elicited tiny smooching sounds from my daughter, while my son leaned in close and sniffed it. The sketchy, energetic illustrations in a limited but bright palette charmed us all. As if more proof was needed that the kids and this book were on the same wavelength, my son asked me to read it again even before we got to the last page: “Even though this book is over, it isn’t really the end. You can start at the beginning and read it to a friend.”

 You know those books you carefully move to the bottom of the stack because you can’t stand to read them one more time? Well,
 
  ANIMAL SHAPES (Little Bee, 40 pp., $11.99; ages 0 to 4)
 
 , written and illustrated by Christopher Silas Neal, is the opposite kind of book: so surprising and pleasing to an adult repeat reader like me that I even found myself suggesting it to the kids. With saturated colors and clean design, the book is a hilarious smooshing together of the two things in the title. (Another smooshing-together book by Neal, “Animal Colors,” was published at the same time, so a series may be in the making.) “When a soaring bird meets a triangle, they become a fly-angle,” one example reads, illustrated by a red bird from above, flying through the sky as an equilateral triangle. And while the book is educational, technically, introducing kids to shapes from a simple square to a nonagon, the lesson is beside the point. The mash-up is simply fun to see, and to say. “When jumbled giraffes meet a rectangle, they become a neck-tangle.” My kids couldn’t identify each shape, but they got the humor, repeating “neck-tangle” and laughing.

 As a story lover by trade and inclination, I’m not much of a fan of wordless picture books.
 
  A PILE OF LEAVES (Phaidon, 24 pp., $18.95; ages 0 to 4)
 
 , by Jason Fulford and Tamara Shopsin, is an exception, and not just because it actually begins with a page of words: “A pile of leaves is like a collage. Each layer adds something new and hides something underneath.” After that comes a twist: see-through pages that let you peer through a transparent window inside a colored frame. Each surprisingly sturdy plastic page shows a layer: a leaf or two, an acorn, ants and a leaf, a grasshopper and two leaves. Then, under that top layer are lost objects — a mitten, a key — the kinds of things that might be misplaced during a romp through a pile of leaves. My kids and I paged through the book once, silently. Then we started over and talked through it, discussing leaves and piles and missing objects. “It’s like digging through a toy basket for a missing piece,” my son said.

 The
 
  MY FIRST PULL-TAB FAIRY TALES (Auzou, 10 pp. each, $10.99 each; ages 0 to 6)
 
 series, illustrated by Marion Cocklico, doesn’t offer innovative twists on the original tales, but it does provide a great, simplified, engaging way to introduce young kids to some classics, including “Pinocchio,” “Little Red Riding Hood” and “Goldilocks and the Three Bears.” The design is genius — pages sturdy enough to withstand thousands of pushes and pulls from tiny hands, with pull-tabs built into each page to avoid those dangling tags or folds of paper that rip or stop functioning almost immediately. The “Goldilocks” volume is cleverly designed with ways for small fingers to pull, push and slide Goldilocks through her adventurous intrusion inside the bears’ house. On my favorite page, Goldi is asleep in the bed that was
 
  just right,
 
 until you pull the tab and she awakens to the intense stares of the three bears with hands on their hips, standing in the doorway. My daughter’s favorite? The front door she could slide open to reveal a cat — again, and again, and again.

 I was skeptical when I initially opened the box that contains
 
  HOUSE: FIRST WORD BOARD BOOKS (Chronicle, 12 pp., $18.99; ages 0 to 3)
 
 , written and illustrated by Michael Slack, a set of five books nestled together. I loved the groovy 1960s look of the cover, but I worried it would be all gimmick, no charm. Yet as soon as I lifted the lid, the kids dived in, prying out the small books, each named for a different room in the house. As they opened them, they “read” them out loud, naming the objects they saw: “Sofa! Computer! Window!” in the living room book. My son selected the garage book and shouted: “Car! Recycling! VACUUM CLEANER!” (He has a passion for vacuums, so this was a true highlight.) Both kids grinned with the pleasure of reading their perfectly sized books to me, rather than the reverse, pointing to objects and identifying them. It’s the ideal kind of kid-design, smartly conceived to appeal to and engage little readers, and requiring no explanation or instructions. That night my daughter carried several of the smallest books in the set with her to bed — well, who else could they have been meant for?

 Caitlin Roper is the editorial director of NYTMag Labs.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 The Oscars, a new history of Northern Ireland, Isaac Mizrahi and more.


 We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:


 This week, the author Meg Wolitzer
 
  writes about the experience
 
 of seeing one of her characters come to life on the screen. Her novel “The Wife” is the basis of an Oscar-nominated film of the same name, with Glenn Close playing the lead role. As Wolitzer puts it, “As soon as I saw the face of this actress, I felt as if I were watching a home movie I hadn’t known existed.”


 We put together a
 
  reading guide
 
 inspired by many of the nominated movies and a
 
  list of books
 
 for film buffs and novices alike.


 Gal Beckerman, an editor at the Book Review,
 
  reviews two new books that explore the benefits of tuning out
 
 : “How to Disappear,” by Akiko Busch, and “Silence,” by Jane Brox.


 Beckerman also appears on
 
  the Book Review’s podcast
 
 this week to discuss those two books. And Steve Luxenberg talks about
 
  “Separate: The Story of Plessy v. Ferguson, and America’s Journey From Slavery to Segregation.”
 

 The iconic illustrator and artist, whose books never shied away from introducing children to the darker sides of life,
 
  died earlier this month at 87
 
 . Our children’s books editor,
 
  Maria Russo, writes
 
 : “There’s nothing out there like Ungerer’s books any more. Maybe that’s because no one else is willing to pull the mask back on the grown-ups — their wars, their lies, their needless aggressions — with quite as much gleeful honesty.”


 “For me literature is most effective when it’s sort of plain,” the fashion designer and author
 
 
 Isaac Mizrahi says in
 
  this week’s By the Book
 
 . “Style is suspicious to me in general. I think that’s true about my taste in everything. Food. Décor. Clothes.”


 In “Say Nothing: A True Story of Murder and Memory in Northern Ireland,” the journalist Patrick Radden Keefe uses the 1972 abduction of a Belfast mother of 10 to tell the story of the Troubles. The Times’s critic Jennifer Szalai calls the book
 
  “resolutely humane” and “meticulously reported.”
 
 The Irish novelist Roddy Doyle says that Keefe’s book
 
  “has lots of the qualities of good fiction.”
 


 Dwight Garner reviews the former F.B.I. deputy director Andrew McCabe’s memoir,
 
  “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump.”
 
 McCabe was fired last year. He may have been “driven out of Dodge," Garner writes, but he has “returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be.”


 Parul Sehgal considers
 
  “Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments,”
 
 by Saidiya Hartman, an “exhilarating social history” about young black women in the early 20th century who tossed out the narrow scripts about intimacy they had been given.

 And Janet Maslin loves “The Border,”
 
  the final volume of Don Winslow’s Cartel trilogy
 
 , writing: “Winslow means to journey deep into a new kind of hell this time, and to suggest that his readers recognize the sensation. This is a book for dark, rudderless times, an immersion into fear and chaos.”

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Books of The Times
 


 By
 
 
  
   Jennifer Szalai
  
 

 Avid readers of Robert A. Caro may greet his new book, “Working: Researching, Interviewing, Writing,” with a mixture of excitement and trepidation. On the one hand: Another Caro book, and it’s not a biography! On the other hand: Another Caro book — and it’s not a biography?


 Considering that the 83-year-old averages a book a decade, his fans might wonder whether “Working” will reset the clock that started in 2012, when the fourth book of his multivolume magnum opus, “The Years of Lyndon Johnson,” was published.


 No need to worry, though this assemblage of personal reflections and interviews may give the true Caro completist a creeping sense of déjà vu. Much of the material was either published before or distilled from stories Caro has recounted elsewhere, and the book reads as if it were designed to divert as little of his time as possible. (Caro says he has a “full-scale memoir” planned, to be completed
 
  after
 
 the next Johnson volume, though at his age, he says, he can also “do the math.”) Small and charming at about 200 pages, a quick spritz instead of a deep dive, “Working” is like the antithesis of Caro’s labor-intensive oeuvre, making it strangely reassuring proof that he is, well, working.


 [
 
  “Working” was one of our most anticipated books of April. See
 
 
  
   the full list
  
 
 
  .
 
 ]


 The next Johnson book will be “the fifth of a projected three volumes,” he writes, declining to get into specifics (“My writing seems never to come out well if I’ve talked about it beforehand”) while promising that it will be the final installment. That means it will have to cover, among other things, the presidential election of 1964; Johnson’s Great Society programs and his continuing feud with Bobby Kennedy; the passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act; the decision not to run for re-election in 1968; Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination; Bobby Kennedy’s assassination; and Johnson’s post-presidency life until his death in 1973.

 Not to mention the escalation of the war in Vietnam, a subject about which “the L.B.J. Library is opening up new files all the time.” It sounds like biography writing as Zeno’s paradox — getting infinitesimally closer to the end without ever reaching it.


 Caro, though, wouldn’t have it any other way. His research methods are deservedly legendary. He and his wife, Ina, pore through archival documents with a determination to “turn every page.” He tracks down as many people to talk to as he can, counting 522 interviews for “The Power Broker,” his landmark biography of Robert Moses, and “thousands” for the Johnson books.


 But these standard techniques are just a start. He and Ina moved from their home in New York to the Texas Hill Country in 1978, living there for three years to better understand Johnson’s childhood. (To get the local women to warm to her and open up about what their lives were like before Johnson brought electricity to the region in the ’30s and ’40s, Ina taught herself how to make fig preserves.) Caro has said he
 
  wants to spend time in Vietnam
 
 to get a sense of what it felt like “to fight in the jungle.”


 All of this painstaking work takes time. The writing itself comes quickly and easily — so much so that the critic R.P. Blackmur, who taught Caro at Princeton, admonished him to “stop thinking with your fingers.” The prose in Caro’s biographies is a mesmerizing combination of fine-grained, meticulous detail recounted in lush, incantatory sentences; he is, as he says repeatedly in “Working,” always trying to accumulate enough material to “show” rather than to tell — “to make readers not only see but understand and feel” the consequences of power.

 Because power, Caro says, is his real subject. He doesn’t think of his books as biographies in the conventional sense. “From the very start,” he writes, “I thought of writing biographies as a means of illuminating the times of the men I was writing about and the great forces that molded those times.” Robert Moses was an unelected bureaucrat whose public works projects transformed the skyline and shorelines of New York City; Lyndon Johnson was a ruthless opportunist and an astonishingly effective legislator who transformed the country’s social landscape. These were men who channeled power, wielded it, embodied it.


 Caro talks a lot about power in “Working.” It can corrupt, yes, but not always. “Once you get enough power, once you’re there, where you wanted to be all along, then you can see what the protagonist wanted to do all along, because now he’s doing it,” he says. “What power
 
  always
 
 does is reveal.”


 It’s a memorable line, from an interview Caro gave to The Paris Review in 2016. It appears not only in “Working” but also in “Master of the Senate,” the third of the Johnson books, published in 2002. There are a number of anecdotes in “Working” that Caro has shared before — after all, his books are so comprehensive that it only makes sense for, say, “Means of Ascent,” the second book in the Johnson series, to include a section on how Caro tracked down Luis Salas, a former voting official who confessed to helping Johnson steal the 1948 Senate election.


 The version of the Salas story that Caro includes in “Working” is presented as an example of what Caro calls “something in my nature” — “the part of me that, now that I was writing books, kept leading me, after I had gotten every question answered, to suddenly think, despite myself, of new questions that, in the instant of thinking them, I felt must be answered for my book to be complete.”


 This is awfully windy — where is Prof. Blackmur when you need him? Caro makes the same point more succinctly when writing about “The Power Broker,” recalling how he was swept away by the scandalous material he was discovering and an accompanying sense of duty. “I just
 
  couldn’t
 
 write the book about the great highway builder — couldn’t outline it, even — without showing the human cost of what he had done,” he writes. “There really was no choice involved.”


 For someone so interested in the power of others, Caro seems coy about his own power to shape legacies. The writer who emerges from these pages is so humble as to be self-effacing — a quality that makes his halting bids at introspection, for all their genial appeal, seem mostly denuded of the drama that normally fuels Caro’s work.


 But then the stubborn willingness to keep digging, to rescue secrets from oblivion, is a form of power, too. Recalling why Moses finally relented and agreed to talk to him, Caro writes: “At last someone had come along who was going to write the book whether he cooperated or not.”

 
  Follow Jennifer Szalai on Twitter:
  
   @jenszalai
  
  .
 


 Working
 
 Researching, Interviewing, Writing
 
 By Robert A. Caro
 
 207 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.




 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Children’s Books
 


 By
 
 
  Candace Fleming
 

 I recently read about an elementary school class that was studying the American Revolution. Each student chose a historical figure to write about. When the teacher asked if anyone had picked a woman, a little girl called out: “No! There were no women then!” Even in 2019 this is what many kids think, which is why we still need a month dedicated to the words and deeds of females. Knowing the challenges and achievements of all manner of women history makers, from the big names (I’m looking at you, Amelia Earhart) to the unsung heroes, destroys the false notion that females are mere observers to history. Their stories serve as both inspiration and empowerment: If she could, then I can.


 
  PLANTING STORIES: The Life of Librarian and Storyteller Pura Belpré (HarperCollins, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8)
 
 beautifully captures the life and essence of Pura Belpré, the first Puerto Rican librarian in New York City. Arriving in Manhattan with the “stories her abuela taught her,” Belpré eventually takes a job at the library as a bilingual assistant. “But where are her abuela’s stories? Not one folk tale from Puerto Rico is on the shelves. How lucky for the library that Pura has story seeds ready to plant and grow.” Belpré goes on to transform library programs through the telling (and eventual publishing) of several culturally diverse stories.


 Anika Aldamuy Denise’s intimate telling captures the magical, folk-tale feeling of Belpré’s own stories. Her lyrical text, sprinkled like fairy dust with Spanish words, begs to be read aloud, while Paola Escobar’s stylishly detailed and warmly expressive illustrations capture the joy of sharing stories. But this biography, like all good biographies, does not simply chronicle a life. Beneath all the fun is a valuable message. As Denise writes in her author’s note, Belpré’s life is a “testament to the power of our own stories to build bridges — not just to literacy, but to social change.”

 Powerful females are not a modern invention. They’ve always been with us, chipping away at society’s restraints and influencing history. Young readers will discover this when they read about Anna Atkins, the subject of Fiona Robinson’s
 
  THE BLUEST OF BLUES: Anna Atkins and the First Book of Photographs (Abrams, 48 pp., $17.99; ages 6 to 9).
 
 Anna is raised by her scientist father, who does not believe gender should limit accomplishment. Not only does he provide Anna with an extraordinary education, but he also encourages her to wonder, question and experiment. And so readers watch Anna grow — with each page turn of this elegantly designed book — from a curious child gathering buttercups in an English meadow in 1807 to a learned botanist who collects, records and renders exquisite and detailed scientific drawings. “But when will she get to share her knowledge of the natural world with the scientific community?” Robinson writes. On this question hangs Anna’s greatest achievement. Barred from the Royal Society of London because she is a woman, Anna finds a way around the limits imposed by society, eventually publishing the world’s first photography book in 1843.

 Robinson cleverly renders her illustrations almost exclusively in the cool blue of Anna’s cyanotype photographs. This gives the book a dreamlike quality; Anna’s world feels misty and faded. In fact, much of what we know about Anna has been lost to history. In her author’s note Robinson admits to creating scenes in the first part of the story because of this. This elaboration, of course, makes the book historical fiction, rather than biography. But it is Anna’s deeds that matter here. Her life is one worth knowing. Robinson’s book is one worth reading.

 Wilma Mankiller, who died in 2010, was the first woman chief of the Cherokee Nation, and as most women do who rise to elevated leadership roles, she scrapped and struggled to get there. In
 
  WILMA’S WAY HOME: The Life of Wilma Mankiller (Disney-Hyperion, 48 pp., $17.99; ages 7 to 10),
 
 Doreen Rappaport and Linda Kukuk unfurl Mankiller’s evolution from “dirt poor” child growing up in a society that devalues Native culture into an exemplar of leadership and strength. It is a detailed account, lovingly rendered in Kukuk’s occasionally awkward but enthusiastic artwork, and skillfully told in Rappaport’s clear and accessible prose. But it is the use of Mankiller’s own words, woven throughout the text, that makes this book soar. Hearing her voice gives us a sense of the real woman. When Mankiller says, “Women can help turn the world right side up,” her sincerity resonates, and we can’t help nodding at the wisdom of her words.


 From the first sentence of
 
  OUT OF THIS WORLD: The Surreal Art of Leonora Carrington (Balzer + Bray, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8),
 
 written by Michelle Markel and illustrated by Amanda Hall, readers know that the artist Leonora Carrington is a rebel. “Leonora’s parents wanted her to be like every other well-bred English girl,” Markel writes. “But she was not.” Boarding schools and debutante balls could not quash Leonora’s artist spirit, and she heads to art school, then off to Paris and into the orbit of the Surrealists. But it isn’t until she flees to Mexico ahead of the Nazis that Leonora discovers her true artistic voice. Wisely, Hall chooses not to recreate Carrington’s art (which can be brooding and sexually suggestive). Instead, she creates bright, busy spreads filled with enchantment. Hyenas sport wild, black manes (much like Leonora’s own hair). Tortoises peek from pockets. Green potions bubble.

 Markel’s telling — evocative and poetic — feels enchanted, too, even if she does occasionally overstate for effect: “Leonora and the other female Surrealists … had no interest in painting women who looked like pretty decorations, as men had done for centuries.” One could argue that artists from Rembrandt to Goya to Millet depicted women as they lived and worked, not just as ornaments. But the author’s point is understood. Carrington’s depiction of women
 
  is
 
 singular. And Markel’s gorgeous description of Carrington’s paintings is the perfect summation of the extraordinariness found in all females: In them, “women have special gifts; they can do things beyond anybody’s wildest dreams — which is marvelous, and it’s powerful, and it’s true.”

 Candace Fleming’s latest Y.A. biography, “The Rise and Fall of Charles Lindbergh,” will be published next year.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 A deep dive into the Chernobyl disaster, a debut British-Palestinian novelist and more.


 We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:


 Our cover review this week is of Nell Freudenberger’s novel “
 
  Lost and Wanted
 
 ,” about a quantum physicist in mourning. Our reviewer, Louisa Hall, sung its praises: “Freudenberger navigates complicated concepts from physics with admirable clarity, and those concepts — entanglement, uncertainty, gravitational waves — help us feel in new ways the ongoing influence of dormant friendships, the difficulties involved with believing in attachments that can’t be observed, the enduring pull of discarded hopes.”


 It’s hard to narrow down the list of worthy books this week, but a few nonfiction titles stand out: Leo Damrosch’s
 
  “The Club: Johnson, Boswell, and the Friends Who Shaped an Age”
 
 ;
 
 
 
  “Midnight in Chernobyl: The Untold Story of the World’s Greatest Nuclear Disaster,”
 
 
 
 by Adam Higginbotham;
 
  “Solitary,”
 
 by Albert Woodfox; and
 
  “Horizon,”
 
 by Barry Lopez.


 Higginbotham joins us on
 
  the podcast this week
 
 to talk about his sweeping new history of the nuclear accident and its aftermath, and later, Nellie Bowles discusses Clive Thompson’s new book, “Coders,” a study of Silicon Valley’s “brogrammer” culture.


 Susan Choi’s fifth novel, “Trust Exercise,” is about theater students at a performing arts high school. It’s about misplaced trust in adults, and about female friendships gone dangerously awry.
 
  Dwight Garner says
 
 that the novel “burns more brightly than anything she’s yet written.”

 Miriam Toews’s new novel, “Women Talking,” was inspired by a real-life series of attacks in a Mennonite community. The ethical questions grappled with in the book “feel strikingly contemporary,”
 
  Parul Sehgal writes
 
 . “What are the differences between punishment and justice? How do we define rehabilitation; how do we enforce accountability?”


 “Memoirs about motherhood are exceedingly common, but ‘Women’s Work’ dares to explore the labor arrangements that often make such books possible.”
 
  Jennifer Szalai reviews
 
 Megan Stack’s new book about the women she hired to help raise her family while living in China and India.


 When the British-Palestinian writer Isabella Hammad first visited Palestine six years ago, it was, in some ways, the culmination of a childhood in which memories and family stories about the region were always present. Joumana Khatib
 
  spoke with Hammad
 
 about that trip, and about her sweeping debut novel, “The Parisian.”


 “Insight is the booby prize of therapy. It’s great if you have it, but if you don’t take that insight and produce change, it’s worthless.” Lori Gottlieb
 
  talks about her new book
 
 , “Maybe You Should Talk to Someone: A Therapist,
 
  Her
 
 Therapist, and Our Lives Revealed.”


 The Seven Day Book Cover Challenge asks users to post a photo of a book cover on a social media platform every day for a week. The
 
  results are delightful
 
 .

 In her new memoir, “All That You Leave Behind,” Carr
 
  documents her relationship with her father
 
 , the former Times reporter and columnist David Carr, and her own troubles, including with alcoholism.


 Here are nine books
 
  our editors recommend
 
 this week, and a list of our
 
  most anticipated titles of the month
 
 .

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 E L James after “Fifty Shades,” Ruth Reichl’s delicious new memoir, Sally Rooney and more.


 We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:


 
  Emily Bazelon’s “Charged”
 
 is an indictment of prosecutorial excess, arguing that lawyers bear much of the responsibility for over-incarceration, conviction of the innocent and other serious problems of the criminal justice system. Bazelon is a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine, and she talks about “Charged” on this week’s episode of the
 
  Book Review podcast
 
 .


 Ruth Reichl’s latest memoir,
 
  “Save Me the Plums,”
 
 is about the former New York Times restaurant critic’s time as editor in chief of Gourmet magazine. Our review calls it a “poignant and hilarious account of what it took to bring the dusty food bible back to life with artistic and literary flair.” Reichl also appears on this week’s
 
  podcast
 
 .


 In By the Book,
 
  Julia Alvarez talks about
 
 her prolific reading habits: “I even have a stack of journals/nonfiction that I read when I’m brushing my teeth. (My dentist marvels at how healthy my gums look.)”


 Sally Rooney’s “Normal People” is her second novel, following the widely acclaimed “Conversations With Friends.” As
 
  Dwight Garner writes
 
 of the new novel’s two main characters: “They are never quite boyfriend and girlfriend in the conventional sense. They merely break each other’s hearts over and over again.”

 In “Working,” the historian Robert A. Caro, takes readers behind his researching and writing process. “For someone so interested in the power of others,”
 
  Jennifer Szalai writes
 
 , “Caro seems coy about his own power to shape legacies.”


 Over the course of three days in 1911, 300 Chinese immigrants were shot and bludgeoned to death in the city of Torreón, during the Mexican Revolution. Parul Sehgal says that an
 
  illuminating new telling of the massacre
 
 by the Mexican writer Julián Herbert is delivered with “shame and fury.”


 The author changed the literary landscape with her blockbuster series, “Fifty Shades of Grey.” Her new book,
 
  “The Mister,” comes out Tuesday
 
 , and it’s the first book she’s written since she created the characters of Christian Grey and Anastasia Steele. “I’m incredibly nervous about it,” James said. “There are other stories I want to tell. I’ve been with these two for so long.”


 Here are eight
 
  books our editors recommend
 
 this week, and a list of our 10
 
  most anticipated titles of April
 
 .

 Advertisement

 Books etc.


 A grand collection of miniature volumes — 950 of them — is now on display at the Grolier Club in New York City.

 
  Selections from "A Matter of Size: Miniature Bindings and Texts from the Collection of Patricia J. Pistner."
 
 
  
   Credit
  
  
   
    Credit
   
   
    Charlie Rubin for The New York Times
   
  
 

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Sarah Lyall
  
 

 The first miniature books to enter Patricia J. Pistner’s life were ones she made with paper and a staple gun for her childhood dollhouse many years ago. She placed them on tiny doll tables in tiny doll rooms and read them aloud to tiny dolls. “A house has to have books in it,” she said recently.


 There would be more dollhouses — ones she and her husband built and furnished for his granddaughters, and the now famous Pistner House, a five-and-a-half-foot-high marvel of 18th-century French architecture and design that features perfectly-scaled miniature reproductions, made over half a decade, by 65 artists and artisans. That led to a new obsession. “I made a life-changing decision to put in a library,” Pistner said, “and instead of using faux books I decided I would have real books.”


 Fast forward a number of years — and a number of courses on antiquarian books, miniature books and the history of bookbinding — to now, when Pistner (pronounced PEIST-ner) has become one of the country’s foremost collectors of miniature books. About 950 books from her collection are currently on display at the Grolier Club,
 
  the nation’s oldest society of bibliophiles
 
 , in Manhattan. (The exhibition, curated by Pistner and Jan Storm van Leeuwen, closes on May 19.)

 Pistner, 69, sees her tiny books not just as intricately designed, differently scaled versions of things she loves already, but also as important artifacts in the development of books through history, reflecting “the finest examples of various binding styles,” she said.

 Most of the books in the exhibit are about one to three inches high and would nestle easily in the palm of your hand. Some are the size of a thumbnail. (There are also a few ultra-micro-miniatures, with no dimension greater than a quarter of an inch; one, shockingly, looks to be about as big as the period in this sentence.) The oldest is a cuneiform tablet from about 2300 B.C.; the newest was published last year. They are
 
 valued
 
 in the tens or hundreds or thousands of dollars; the rarest of miniature antiquarian books can sell in the six or even seven figures.


 There are religious books and history books; almanacs and devotionals; picture books and novels and poetry; printed books and handmade manuscripts; collections of Shakespeare and books about the alphabet. Many are elaborately and extravagantly bound, with covers inlaid in materials including gold and silver and jewels. Some were made as exquisite little objects; others were meant to be read frequently, tucked inside a pocket and carried close to their owners’ hearts for ease of consultation. Some are feats of extreme miniaturization. A few are tokens of love.

 
  At the
 
 
  Grolier
 
 , the exhibit takes up just a modest-sized room and hallway. But it turns out that you can fit a lot of teeny books into a relatively small space. A few days before the exhibit opened, Pistner was there to put the finishing touches on the display — she made the tiny stands for her tiny objects herself, out of Vivak plastic-like material — and to talk about her passion for her books.

 Asking her to choose favorites is like asking a parent which of their children they love the best, but here are a few highlights from the collection:


 Here, in its original Latin, albeit smaller, is
 
  Galileo’s famous 1615 letter to Cosimo d’Medici’s mother
 
 , laying out his (heretical) reasoning for why the Bible should not be used as a basis for scientific belief. The fact that it is printed in 2 pt. “fly’s eye” type — by comparison, the type you are reading now (in the printed newspaper, at least) is 8.7 pt. — makes it all the more exciting. It is considered to be one of the most famous miniature books in the world, Pistner said, because of its size (the binding is 18 millimeters, or about 0.7 of an inch, high) and the quality of its craftsmanship.


 One of two tiny eight-sided Qur’ans in the exhibit, this is a complete transcription of the Islamic holy book, probably from the 19th century. It measures in at a mere 50 x 45 x 12 mm and has fetching gold pigment on its cover and elaborate floral designs inside. “A miniature Qur’an permits a protective intimacy with the revealed word of God through wearing, carrying or close placement,” Pistner writes in the
 
 exhibit
 
 ’s
 
 catalog
 
 . In the Ottoman era, mini Qur’ans were also placed on banners carried into battle.


 This very small 2,300-odd-years-old solid-black object is replete with writing, much of it consisting of apparently indecipherable magic spells. But around its sides is a four-line invocation calling on the creator of the universe “to give strength, health and salvation and to protect the wearer from evil and harmful spirits.” Such objects were actually amulets often worn or carried by their owners during the Roman Empire.


 The exhibit includes many weird and unusual types of books, including a single sheet of 258 x 7 mm paper on which the Lord’s Prayer has been micrographically inscribed in black ink; a 51 mm tall Ethiopic manuscript from the 19th or early 20th century, written on wooden boards and stored in a two-piece leather case; and a heart-shaped 19th-century possibly-French book that opens into an elaborate puzzle of poetry and prayers. The manuscript above was a diary written, in contravention of Navy rules, by a sailor aboard the transport ship Henry R. Mallory during World War I. (He cunningly concealed it in a little brass nut that may have been part of the ship’s pipe system.) The diary, on a single scrolling sheet of paper, chronicles meetings with enemy submarines, ones that fire at the Mallory and ones that the Mallory fires upon; ones that sink, and ones that get away.


 This is a very rare example of the phenomenon known as triple dos-a-dos binding, meaning that three bindings are connected to each other by shared inner covers. In this case, two separate books were bound together by means of various complicated maneuvers in late 18th-century France, with the two parts of the first book, the “Etrennes,” split apart and all of the Almanac concealed inside. When you pick it up, you find it opens like an accordion, in a sense, with one of the books facing toward you and the other facing away.


 In 2016, a 9-year-old boy, Joseph Gama met Pistner by chance at a meeting of the Miniature Book Society in Texas (he was there with his father). Charmed by his wonder and enthusiasm, Pistner presented Joseph with a miniature book he had particularly admired. “Things I Like,” a compendium of his favorite things, with illustrations by the author, was his thank-you gift to her a little while later. The things Joseph likes, it turns out, include trucks; bicycles; rockets; books; his dog, Astro; and Pistner herself, represented by the words “And You” on the last page of the book, along with instructions to smell the heart he has drawn with a strawberry-scented crayon.


 The book here
 
 is presented inside a hollowed-out walnut with a golden inner edge, alongside a thimble and other sewing implements. Such so-called sewing nécessaires were in circulation in France in the 18th and 19th centuries, but it is very rare to find one that contains a teeny book as well the more obvious practical tools. “Valeur et Constance,” or “Value and Constancy,” is a Parisian almanac for the year 1823, and it slips out of its slot and can be read (albeit with some physical maneuvering) even as its owner sews.

 This 14th-century book from Damascus contains two complete homilies and a partial one relating to the founding of principles of the Samaritans, the longest-lived religious sect in Jewish history. Written mostly in Arabic with a few passages in Paleo-Hebrew, the book also contains a biblical account of the creation of the world, a great many calls to repent, and various prayers for, among other things, the well-being of the sultan. It is fraying at the edges but its words, in ink on parchment, are still perfectly clear.


 Not only is this one of the teeniest manuscripts ever produced by the renowned London bookbinders Sangorski &amp; Sutcliffe, it also contains two of the most stirring speeches in American history: The Gettysburg Address and Lincoln’s Second Inaugural Address. The book was exquisitely handwritten and illuminated around 1930 by Alberto Sangorski, brother of one of the firm’s founders, and includes a tiny painting of Lincoln.
 
  Founded at the beginning of the 20th century, Sangorski &amp; Sutcliffe
 
 became known for reviving the Middle Ages custom of creating sumptuous jeweled bindings, in which leather covers are elaborately inlaid with gold, silver and precious and semiprecious stones. Its most famous work — a luxurious binding for a (non-miniature) copy of the Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám, which took two and a half years to make and had a front cover decorated with three golden peacocks and inlaid with 1,000 jewels — sadly went down with the Titanic.


 The cover of this cunning little almanac is made with, among other things, bloodstone, glass, gold, woven textile and braids of hair, along with the initials A.C. Two gold frames, on the front and the back covers, show a snake biting its tail in an endless circle symbolizing eternity. It is believed such books were given by a person to his or her beloved as a pledge of endless devotion.


 How tiny is this volume? So tiny that it is known as an ultra-micro book, with dimensions of 0.75 x 0.75x 1 mm. So tiny that when you look at it in its display case, what you see is an almost imperceptible black speck in the middle of a tiny circle inside another, slightly larger circle. (
 
 The version above is enlarged.)
 
 The book, one of 245 copies printed in Tokyo in 2012, contains printed letters that are .01 mm wide as well as ridiculously small illustrations of 12 types of Japanese flowers found in the four seasons of the year. To help put it in perspective, it is displayed with an enlarged version of the book, with a (relatively) gigantic 13 x 13 mm binding, and an 8x magnifying glass.

 Sarah Lyall is a writer at large, working for a variety of desks including Sports, Culture, Media and International. Previously she was a correspondent in the London bureau, and a reporter for the Culture and Metro Desks.
 
  
   
    @
   
   sarahlyall
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 The lives of Supreme Court justices, a poet’s treacherous trip to El Salvador, Mueller-related reading and more.


 We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:


 On our cover, we’ve got reviews of two new books about Supreme Court justices: Jeffrey Toobin reviews “First,” Evan Thomas’s
 
  biography of Sandra Day O’Connor
 
 , and Adam Cohen, a former Times opinion editor, writes about Joan Biskupic’s
 
  “The Chief: The Life and Turbulent Times of Chief Justice John Roberts.”
 


 Thomas
 
  visits the podcast this week
 
 to discuss “First,” and Mitchell S. Jackson is also on the show, talking about his latest book,
 
  “Survival Math.”
 


 “American Spy,” Lauren Wilkinson’s
 
  assured debut thriller
 
 , explores the career and moral quandaries of a black woman who’s undervalued in the boys’ club of the F.B.I.


 Our latest
 
  Graphic Content column
 
 looks at the genre of “graphic medicine,” comics illustrating the challenges of doctors and travails of patients.

 How did a teenage tech nerd transform himself into the boss of an international cartel? In
 
  “The Mastermind,”
 
 Evan Ratliff explains.


 Dwight Garner
 
  reviews “Lot,”
 
 a debut collection of stories by Bryan Washington set in the sprawling and multiethnic neighborhoods of Houston. “The promise Washington displays is real and large,” Garner writes.


 The essayist David Shields has never shied away from offering candid details about his inner and outer life. Parul Sehgal says he “breaks the sound barrier for indiscretion” in his latest book,
 
  “The Trouble With Men.”
 


 In 1977, someone Carolyn Forché had never met arrived at the poet’s door in California and convinced her to travel to El Salvador to document the perilous political turmoil there. Forché recounts her experience in “What You Have Heard Is True.”
 
  Jennifer Szalai reviews
 
 .

 Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has delivered his report on Russian interference in the 2016 election, but it might be some time before Congress or the public can read it. So for the meantime, we’ve put together
 
  a list of related reading
 
 .


 Our
 
  weekly list of recommended books
 
 includes Helen Oyeyemi’s new novel, “Gingerbread”; the story of Lizzie Borden’s trial; Isaac Mizrahi’s memoir and more. And don’t miss our list of
 
  12 new titles to look for
 
 this month.


 We took a tour of this year's
 
  New York International Antiquarian Book Fair
 
 . On view? First editions of “Leaves of Grass” and an artist's interpretation of “Finnegans Wake.” The price tags were eye-popping — by the end, $2,500 for an old deck of cards started to sound entirely reasonable.


 Kurt Vonnegut’s hugely influential antiwar novel
 
  turns 50 this month
 
 , and his daughter recalls that when he was at work on the book, “he was writing to save his own life.”


 Separately, the novelist and Iraq war veteran
 
  Kevin Powers writes about the enduring “moral clarity”
 
 of the story, saying that Vonnegut “could cut through cant and sophistry and dissembling to expose our collective self-deceptions for what they are.”


 Back in 1982, when
 
  Mitchell Kaplan founded Books &amp; Books
 
 , a publisher’s notion of Miami literature didn’t amount to much more than drug dramas and diet guides. But now, the store has several locations throughout Miami, a devoted following and a stocklist dedicated to representing the city’s diverse voices and narratives.

 Finally, happy 100th birthday to Lawrence Ferlinghetti, the poet, publisher and founder of San Francisco’s beloved bookstore City Lights.
 
  His new book, “Little Boy,”
 
 recounts his life story in a free association of flashes and arias. As our reviewer put it: “Ferlinghetti has not just survived for a century: He epitomizes the American culture of that century.”



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 New books from Helen Oyeyemi, Isaac Mizrahi and more.


 We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:


 Helen Oyeyemi’s sixth novel, “Gingerbread,” has the fairy-tale aura typical of her work.
 
  Our reviewer calls the book
 
 “jarring, funny, surprising, unsettling, disorienting and rewarding.”


 With
 
  his new book, “I.M.,”
 
 the fashion designer, television star and singer Isaac Mizrahi adds memoirist to his list of achievements. Mizrahi also
 
  visits our podcast this week
 
 , to discuss the book and his formative years.


 
  Roz Chast and Patricia Marx
 
 , both of The New Yorker, talk about their new book, their ukulele band and, of course, their mothers.


 Mark Synnott’s
 
  “The Impossible Climb”
 
 gives context for Alex Honnold’s historic unroped ascent of El Capitan, Yosemite’s 3,000-foot slab of “glacier-polished granite.” Honnold’s climb was recently documented in the Oscar-winning film “Free Solo.” Our review of Synnott’s book is by the intrepid author and dog sledder Blair Braverman.

 In sad news: The great American poet
 
  W.S. Merwin died on Friday
 
 , at age 91.


 Preet Bharara
 
  reviews “Truth in Our Times, ” a new memoir by David McCraw
 
 , the deputy general counsel for The Times. In an era where accusations of“fake news” run rampant, the truth is hard. But for McCraw, defending it is fun.


 Laurie Halse Anderson, the author, most recently, of the memoir “Shout,”
 
  answers our By the Book questions
 
 .


 Looking for your next read? Our editors recommend
 
  seven new books this week
 
 , or check out our list of
 
  12 books to look for this month
 
 .


 And finally, we’re
 
  celebrating Women’s History Month
 
 by featuring new and archival essays, reviews and more. Be sure to check back to keep up with all our pieces, including a new reconsideration of work by feminist writer Andrea Dworkin and a 1971 essay by Toni Morrison about the women’s liberation movement.


 Have a great week.





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Salman Rushdie on a “dazzling” debut novel, Bret Easton Ellis, the birth of American Modernism and more.


 We take the weekend to highlight recent books coverage from The Times:


 It’s an honor to have Salman Rushdie reviewing on our cover this week, his first review for The Times since the 1990s, and it’s especially a thrill given his high praise for a debut novel.
 
  “The Old Drift,”
 
 
 
 by Namwali Serpell, is a multigenerational story set in Zambia, where the author was born,


 Jennifer Senior, a former book critic and current opinion columnist for The Times, reviews Preet Bharara’s first book,
 
  “Doing Justice: A Prosecutor’s Thoughts on Crime, Punishment, and the Rule of Law.”
 
 Bharara is also a guest on this week’s
 
  Book Review podcast
 
 .


 In
 
  “Foursome,”
 
 Carolyn Burke explores the two artist couples who helped found American Modernism: Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O’Keeffe, Paul Strand and Rebecca Salsbury. This comprehensive biography draws on newly-available correspondence between the four, with O’Keeffe emerging as the electric center.


 And
 
  Howell Raines reviews “Bending Toward Justice,”
 
 a new memoir by Senator Doug Jones of Alabama, who discusses his role in the famous 1963 church-bombing case and his experience running for office in 2017. If Alabama has finally shed its past and come to grips with the modern age, Doug Jones may have had a lot to do with it.

 
  We recommend 10 books
 
 to check out, and this week’s By the Book features Richard Powers,


 
  Dwight Garner also has high praise for “The Old Drift,”
 
 calling it “dazzling,” “an intimate, brainy, gleaming epic” that is “as ambitious as any first novel published this decade.”


 In
 
  “Hattiesburg,”
 
 the historian William Sturkey tells the story of Jim Crow by focusing on the everday lives of the residents, black and white, of the Mississippi town. “Sturkey’s cleareyed and meticulous book pulls off a delicate balancing act,” Jen Szalai writes.


 You might think it would be difficult to find someone who wants to make a movie out of a 700-page screenplay about the“mystical honeycombed interior” of Herman Melville’s mind. You would be right. Sarah Lyall reviews Yannick Haenel’s new novel,
 
  “Hold Fast Your Crown.”
 


 Our writer sat down with
 
  Bret Easton Ellis
 
 — once seen as a literary bad boy and the voice of his generation. “White,” a new essay collection and his first book in nearly a decade, comes out in April. He’s calmed down, and wishes everyone else would, too: “The language police is a hard thing to deal with if you are creative.”


 In her new book, “Women Talking,” the Canadian novelist
 
  Miriam Toews
 
 directs her gaze at the moral failings of the Protestant sect in which she was raised. “If you don’t end up filled with self-loathing and or guilt and or inexplicable rage, living in that community, then you are not paying attention,” she said.

 
  Damon Young
 
 , the co-founder of the cultural criticism website Very Smart Brothas mines his experiences in a new memoir, “What Doesn’t Kill You Makes You Blacker.”
 
 
 He spoke with our reporter about everything from using humor as a coping strategy to the “absurdity” of “existing while black.” As he put it: “So much of the national dialogue about race deals with either terrible trauma or black excellence. I was more interested in the space in between, because that’s where I exist.”

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Editors’ Choice


 Troubling history lives on, vividly and urgently, in this week’s recommended books. Julián Herbert’s latest book revisits, with “shame and fury,” the massacre of 300 Chinese immigrants in the city of Torreón during the Mexican Revolution. Mark Bowden follows detectives as they crack open a 40-year-old cold case involving the disappearance of two sisters. “The Lions’ Den” examines how thinkers on the left have grappled with the idea and the reality of Israel. And the starkly titled “Hate” is about the history — and the present — of anti-Semitism in France.


 We also look at one of the year’s most highly anticipated novels, “Normal People,” Sally Rooney’s follow-up to “Conversations With Friends,” and at two debut novels: one comic and one terrifying.


 John Williams
 
 Daily Books Editor and Staff Writer


 
  
   NORMAL PEOPLE
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  by Sally Rooney. (Hogarth, $26.)
 
 Rooney’s second novel, following “Conversations With Friends,” was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize. It’s about Marianne and Connell, gifted teenagers from different social classes in Ireland. The book tracks them across four years. They are never quite boyfriend and girlfriend in the conventional sense. They “merely break each other’s hearts over and over again,” our critic Dwight Garner writes. Rooney’s “intimate and pared-down style can be reminiscent of Rachel Cusk’s,” Garner says, and her novels are satisfying “because there aren’t dueling narrators or cat’s cradles of plotlines. You buy Rooney’s ticket, you take her ride.”


 
  
   THE HOUSE OF THE PAIN OF OTHERS: Chronicle of a Small Genocide
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  by Julián Herbert. Translated from the Spanish by Christina MacSweeney. (Graywolf Press, $16.)
 
 The latest by Herbert, a Mexican writer and musician, tells the story of a massacre that took place in the city of Torreón, over the course of three days in 1911, during the Mexican Revolution. Three hundred Chinese immigrants were shot and bludgeoned to death in the streets. The crime has been misunderstood and misrepresented. But it has never been truly forgotten. Our critic Parul Sehgal writes: “The great strength of Herbert’s book, written with such shame and fury, is that it is not framed as epitaph but as dispatch from a live crime scene, attentive to the silences, the still seething resentments, relinquishing nothing to history.”

 
  
   
    CHARGED: The New Movement to Transform American Prosecution and End Mass Incarceration
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Emily Bazelon. (Random House, $28.)
 
 Prosecutors, often hoping for higher office, have embraced a tough-on-crime stance that gives them undue power, according to this riveting argument by a staff writer at The Times Magazine — at once an indictment and a call for reform. Bazelon persuasively indicts prosecutorial excess, arguing that the lawyers who work in the more than 2,000 prosecutors’ offices around the country bear much of the responsibility for over-incarceration, conviction of the innocent and other serious problems of the criminal justice system.


 
  
   
    THE LAST STONE
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Mark Bowden. (Atlantic Monthly, $27.)
 
 In this thoughtful, stirring true-crime tale, Bowden follows cold-case detectives as they crack a 40-year-old case involving the disappearance of two Maryland sisters — a story he covered at the time as a young reporter. Bowden shows how even the most exquisitely pulled-off interrogations are a messy business, in which exhaustive strategizing is followed by game-time gut decisions and endless second-guessing and soul-searching.


 
  
   
    SAVE ME THE PLUMS: My Gourmet Memoir
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Ruth Reichl. (Random House, $27.)
 
 A delicious account of a decade that took The Times’s former restaurant critic from the glory days of editing at Condé Nast to the morning when the office door was closed for good. Tantalizing recipes provide punctuation to her career twists and turns.


 
  
   
    THE LIONS’ DEN: Zionism and the Left From Hannah Arendt to Noam Chomsky
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Susie Linfield. (Yale University, $32.50.)
 
 Linfield tackles the fraught question of how Jewish thinkers of the left, devoted to universal values, contend with Israel, a country founded to solve the particularist problem of Jewish sovereignty. The heart of the book is a series of individual portraits of iconic, midcentury left-wing thinkers who wrote extensively on the idea and reality of Jewish statehood. Linfield is an associate professor of journalism at New York University and her writing combines the storytelling of a journalist with a scholar’s analysis of ideas.


 
  
   
    HATE: The Rising Tide of Anti-Semitism in France (and What It Means for Us)
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Marc Weitzmann. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $26.)
 
 France has become a difficult place for Jews to live. Weitzmann details a number of recent incidents in which Jews have become the scapegoat in a nationalist moment looking for cosmopolitan, globalized elites as culprits. This impassioned book swirls from personal to historical reflections, setting out to understand the reasons for the scourge and to cut through what he sees as persistent French obfuscation of it.

 
  
   
    RIVER OF FIRE
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Qurratulain Hyder. (New Directions, paper, $19.95.)
 
 This epic novel of India’s partition gushes across more than 2,000 years of the subcontinent’s history. Hyder wrote it in Urdu, then again in English — a process she calls “transcreation” rather than translation.


 
  
   
    THE ALTRUISTS
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Andrew Ridker. (Viking, $26.)
 
 This comic and remarkably assured first novel charts the clash of expectations when a cash-starved widower’s two adult children return to the family home in St. Louis. Ridker’s ambitious blend of global perspective and intimate human comedy seems likely to evoke comparisons to the work of Jonathan Franzen and Nathan Hill.


 
  
   
    THE ALARMING PALSY OF JAMES ORR
   
  
 
 
  
   ,
  
 
 
  by Tom Lee. (Soho, $23.)
 
 In this debut novel, an ordinary man wakes up one day transformed by a grotesque facial affliction. It’s a fresh take on Kafka, highlighting the potential for terrifying change that may lurk in our DNA. Lee explores themes of illness and the almost dystopian alienation that emerges between sufferers and the well, and does so with artfulness and delicious doses of body horror and contemporary British social satire.

 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
  ,
 
 
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
  and
  
   Instagram
  
  , s
 
 
  ign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 A history of the moon landing 50 years later, a new novel from Sally Rooney and more.


 By
 
 
  
   Joumana Khatib
  
 

 From a new poetry collection to a novel about a quantum physicist in mourning, there’s something for every taste coming out this month. Here are some books to look for.


 
  [ Want to keep up with the latest book news, reviews and features? Subscribe to our
 
 
  
   Books Briefing newsletter
  
 
 
  . ]
 

 Ahead of the 50th anniversary of the moon landing, this book delves into the history of the space race, exploring its political, scientific and cultural components. Brinkley draws on primary source materials and interviews with the major figures, and focuses on the men and women who helped fuel the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo projects.

 Bazelon, a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine, argues that prosecutors have far too much power over the outcomes of criminal cases. To explore their outsize influence, Bazelon follows the cases of two defendants, and interweaves their stories with academic research. The book lays out a path for urgent and necessary changes to the current system, and features a group of young, reform-minded district attorneys who give Bazelon hope.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 

 McKibben sounded an early alarm about climate change, and his new book’s subtitle summarizes what is perhaps his worst fear. He outlines the many dangers that climate change poses to civilization — rising sea levels, threats to food production — and the obstacles to halting the onset of global warming. While fear outweighs hope in the book, he does offer some reasons to be optimistic.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 


 As a cub reporter in Baltimore, Bowden was swept up in a 1975 case of two missing sisters, which went unsolved for decades. In 2013, the police trained their eyes on a new suspect, and Bowden, also the author of “Black Hawk Down,” followed along as they investigated. His book revisits the case and offers insight into the interrogation practices and the high stakes that accompany them.

 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 

 This eloquent new novel borrows from science fiction and ghost stories to tell the story of a quantum physicist in mourning. Helen Clapp is an acclaimed scientist, far more inclined to choose rationality over the supernatural, but a phone call from her dead friend forces her to reconsider.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 


 Rooney’s first novel, “Conversations With Friends,” became a sensation, praised for its portrayal of a complex, intellectually driven friendship between two young women. With her trademark nuance and insight, her new book follows the on-again, off-again romance and friendship between Connell and Marianne. The pair first meet as high schoolers, striking up an unlikely relationship — he’s popular and well-liked; she’s a loner — and later attend Trinity College in Dublin together.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 

 This
 
  elegant debut novel
 
 explores the period of Palestinian history between the end of the Ottoman Empire and World War II through the life and travels of a man from Nablus. When the man, Midhat Kamal, leaves to study in France in 1914 he discovers an affinity for life there, but he finds he has a complicated relationship with his homeland upon his return.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 


 A controversial TV host, Matthew Miller, comes under scrutiny after a school shooting is linked to his show, and the secrets from his past, in 1970s New York and beyond, start to emerge. The novel is told from the perspectives of Miller’s former lover, Semi, and his publicist, Cel.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 

 The poems in Brown’s third collection touch on everything from fatherhood to trauma, but above all they meditate on the various meanings of blackness. The director of the creative writing program at Emory University, Brown also showcases a new form he invented: the “duplex,” which borrows from the ghazal, the sonnet and the blues.

 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 


 The
 
  Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
 
 , best known for his biographies of Lyndon B. Johnson and Robert Moses, reflects on his writing process in a new collection. In these pieces, both previously published and new, he remembers significant interviews, shares how he drafts his books and gives insight into how he approaches his work.


 
  [ Read our
 
 
  
   review
  
 
 
  . ]
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Books of The Times
 


 By
 
 
  
   Jennifer Szalai
  
 

 When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 As a Filipino child growing up in a small Massachusetts town, Grace Talusan felt both scrutinized and unseen. Having arrived from the Philippines when she was 2, she rehearsed a Boston accent and prayed for a metamorphosis, pleading with God to turn her into a white girl with blonde hair and blue eyes. But her transformation one morning at the age of 8 turned out to be less Barbie and more Kafka: “My lips had disappeared into a mass of swollen flesh, my earlobes were triple their usual size and my cheeks were throbbing hot.”


 In “The Body Papers,” Talusan’s precise, delicately constructed memoir-in-essays, her brief turn as a “puffy pink monster,” inflamed with hives, was a sign that something monstrous was being done to her. Her father’s father, Tatang (Tagalog for “father” — Talusan uses the Filipino vocabulary for kinship ties throughout), would arrive from the Philippines for an extended visit every spring and enter Grace’s room at night, pulling her floral nightgown over her shoulders. The sexual abuse started when she was 7 and ended when she was 13, after she waited for Tatang one evening and shoved him into the bedroom wall. Seeing the look of humiliation on his face, she knew that one form of torment was over: “My rage turned to joy.”


 “The Body Papers” doesn’t track a one-way march to triumph from adversity; Talusan’s essays loop in on themselves, as she retrieves old memories and finds unexpected points of connection. It was only a few years after the abuse stopped that she told her family about it. They were supportive but not surprised. Her grandfather, she learned, “was an unrelenting pedophile.” Her parents were compulsively secretive, having fled an authoritarian country where “a story could get you killed.” After her father’s student visa expired, the Talusans became undocumented immigrants; Grace and her older sister only found out about their vulnerable status when they had to miss school for the blood tests and fingerprinting that were part of the immigration application process.


 “There is no paper trail to document what happened to my body,” Talusan writes, recalling what her grandfather did to her. But once an order for her deportation arrived, a paper trail controlled her fate. She later obtained her immigration file through a Freedom of Information Act request and reproduces some of the pages in this book, as if entering them into the public record. “With a shuffle of papers,” she writes, “life as I knew it could be lost.”

 Talusan is now an American citizen, though soon after President Trump’s inauguration she started carrying her American passport with her whenever she left the house. Documents had once posed a threat; now they were a form of protection. When she took a genetic test at the age of 33, the slip of paper showing the results saved her life. Learning that she was genetically predisposed to the cancers that had killed a number of her female relatives, Talusan decided to have her breasts and ovaries removed.


 These were radical interventions for a body that had suffered from years of neglect. “I once drew a picture of myself in which my head floats over my body like a balloon,” she writes. “That’s where I really live, my head; my body is just the vehicle.” She put on weight, trying to erect a protective barrier around herself. But the boundary between her and the world had a way of warping and dissolving.


 Talusan describes such experiences with unadorned prose that conveys a startling specificity. As an anxious child, she would bite her nails “and line up the white slivers in the groove of the pencil holder, pretending my nails were sails for boats that would take me away.” After her double mastectomy, she imagined what would happen if she went jogging and her silicone implants burst out of her skin: “I saw myself stooping to collect the slippery implants, and quickly dusting off the black pebbles from the track before anyone saw.”


 Her father, an ophthalmologist, was so preoccupied with external dangers to his loved ones’ eyesight (Grace learned to respect “the raw power of drinking straws, metal clothes hangers, baseballs, pencils and tree branches”) that he missed the signs that a young granddaughter, Grace’s niece, was developing a retinoblastoma — a cancer of the eye. His misplaced vigilance was also what led him to miss the signs that his own daughter was being abused inside the family home.

 “Our house was American on the outside, but Filipino on the inside,” Talusan recalls. It was supposed to be a haven; a place where she could remove the mask that she had worn all day, as one of the few girls of color in her school. Decades later, when she temporarily moved with her husband to the Philippines for a fellowship, she wondered if returning to the land of her birth, a place where she could blend into the crowd, would alleviate the sense of loss that seemed to follow her wherever she went.


 But even though she lived in a cosseted part of Manila, in a neighborhood with a Starbucks and a Lamborghini dealership, she knew that the poor were hauling garbage and scrounging for food on the other side of the wall. Visiting an orphanage, she met a teenage girl who had been found in a cemetery, having survived for years on the oranges and pastries that mourners left on the gravestones, in honor of the dead. “Every day here,” Talusan writes, “I am offended.”


 Such commentary, while righteous and earned, is not the point of this indelible book. Talusan has the instincts of a storyteller, teasing out her narrative through images and allusion. She writes about her father with tenderness and empathy, recalling how he used to earn extra money in the Philippines by making prosthetic eyes that he boiled in a stockpot filled with water. “He thought it was beautiful, how the eyes bobbed and floated and rolled over — all those eyes that couldn’t see.”

 The Body Papers
 
 A Memoir
 
 By Grace Talusan
 
 Illustrated. 255 pages. Restless Books. $22.99.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Dave Itzkoff
  
 

 When
 
  “Captain Marvel”
 
 opens next Friday, it will be a moment of great satisfaction mixed with lingering frustration.


 The film, which stars
 
  Brie Larson
 
 as that spacefaring comic-book superhero, is the 21st entry in the interconnected Marvel movie franchise since it began in 2008 but only the first to focus principally on a woman.


 By now, audiences have grown accustomed to superhero movies that put women in the spotlight. In 2017,
 
  “Wonder Woman,”
 
 based on DC Comics’ Amazonian warrior, was a worldwide hit for Warner Bros.


 Marvel has built its own fortunes on a decades-old supply of costumed adventurers that doesn’t lack for women. And the studio has been criticized for its slowness to create movies emphasizing its female characters.

 So what took Marvel as long as it did to reach this point? And will “Captain Marvel” be the movie that makes good on this long unfulfilled potential?


 
  [
 
 
  
   Mar-Vell explained
  
 
 
  . | Meet
 
 
  
   the cats who played Goose
  
 
 
  in the movie.]
 


 The answer to the first question, at least, lies in a tangle of social, cultural and economic factors. They parallel similar issues that Marvel has faced in making strides toward female representation in its comic books over the past 60 years — efforts that gradually helped bring Captain Marvel to prominence in the publisher’s pantheon and make the movie more likely.


 The people behind “Captain Marvel” — the movie as well as the comic books that inspired it — acknowledge the problematic history that led to these more welcome developments.

 They also see opportunities for women to have an equal place on the page and on the screen, and for the Captain Marvel character to grow as an icon of female representation and empowerment.

 “What Captain Marvel needed to be when she debuted in the 1960s is very different than what she needs to be in 2019, when she’s anchoring a major film,” said Kelly Thompson, the current author of the Captain Marvel comic book series. “The film has her poised to be more important to more people than ever, and comics gets to be the proving ground for the character.”


 Marvel, the Disney-owned home of the Avengers superteam, has become an important bellwether of diversity in Hollywood. The studio has broken ground with films like
 
  “Black Panther,”
 
 its 2018 blockbuster with a black director, screenwriters and leading actors.


 In recent years Marvel has also gained a reputation for giving opportunities to filmmakers who don’t have a background in tentpole action movies. That category includes the “Captain Marvel” directors Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck, who are better known for low-budget offerings like “Mississippi Grind” and “It’s Kind of a Funny Story.”


 Recalling an early meeting with Marvel, Boden said they told the studio, “All we have is the character stuff. And they said, ‘We know how to explode things — we need directors who can tell a story.’”


 (“Captain Marvel,” written by Boden, Fleck and Geneva Robertson-Dworet, is also the first Marvel movie to have a female director and only the second, after 2014’s “Guardians of the Galaxy,” to credit women as screenwriters.)


 Larson,
 
  an Academy Award winner for the 2015 drama “Room,”
 
 said she was initially wary when she was approached for “Captain Marvel” and unsure if she wanted to take on such a high-profile role.

 But the actress, who has called for greater participation by women and people of color in the film industry and in the media covering it, said the global rollout of “Captain Marvel” could help bring her advocacy to a wider audience.


 She said she felt invested in the moral lessons of her smaller films like
 
  “Short Term 12.”
 
 But when it came to “Captain Marvel,” Larson said she asked herself, “Could I still do the same thing of caring about the content and making sure it has a message while also playing all over the world? Being able to shape the conversation is what female leadership looks like.”


 In Captain Marvel’s favor, Larson said that while other Marvel heroes are weak and lowly at the start of their origin stories, “she was a badass before she got her powers.”


 A former Air Force test pilot named Carol Danvers, she gains superhuman abilities from an alien race, and Boden described the movie as a mystery of sorts in which Danvers must investigate her own past.


 “As she gets to know herself and embrace what makes her
 
  her
 
 , she really achieves her true power,” Boden said. “Part of that means rejecting the voices of people who tell her she’s not strong enough and doesn’t belong. I feel like a lot of people will be able to relate to that, particularly women.”




 
  THE CHARACTER OF CAROL DANVERS
 
 has been on a journey of her own
 
  since Marvel introduced her in the comics in 1968
 
 . At the time, she was not much more than a Lois Lane-type love interest for a male hero (an extraterrestrial soldier who was the publisher’s original Captain Marvel).

 Marvel, where its audacious editor
 
  Stan Lee
 
 led a roster of talented writers and illustrators, was celebrated in that era for its inclusivity. But its earliest efforts at female representation can now seem like tokenism.


 “You can’t help but think that if Stan Lee wasn’t a conscious sexist, he certainly was so traditional,” said Heidi MacDonald, editor of
 
  The Beat
 
 , a comics culture website. “He gave his female characters the weakest powers — ‘Oh, I can get very small.’ ‘I can turn invisible.’ ‘I can move a teacup with my mind.’”

 In the 1970s and ’80s, Marvel put out its first solo female superhero comics and introduced
 
  Spider-Woman
 
 and
 
  She-Hulk
 
 , gender-swapped versions of its best-known characters who were intended, in part, to protect the publisher’s copyrights.


 In a nod to the growing feminist movement, Marvel transformed Danvers into
 
  Ms. Marvel
 
 , giving her a solo series in which she battled intergalactic villains and wore a navel-baring costume.

 The character would go in and out of vogue over the years, a period when many women would drift away from comics. The publications became harder to find at bookstores and newsstands, and female readers were alienated by
 
  sexist story lines
 
 and artwork that reduced women to sidekicks and stereotypes.


 “In the ’80s and ’90s, we made comics that were actively insulting to women,” the writer Kelly Sue DeConnick said. “Women left in droves. Because why are you going to read stuff that’s actively insulting to you, that you have to get at a specialty store where you’re not always welcome?”


 DeConnick sought to counteract this when she reintroduced Carol Danvers
 
  in a 2012 series
 
 in which the character finally assumed the title of Captain Marvel and donned a jumpsuit more appropriate to her military background.


 In the preceding years, DeConnick said, “she had gone from wearing a gymnast’s leotard with thigh boots to a thong. It was the most disingenuous thing in the world.”


 DeConnick, whose father served in the Air Force for 20 years, said she wanted to inscribe Danvers in the tradition of the pilot aces she’d long admired.


 “I grew up on Air Force bases and have a real soft spot for the history of aviation,” DeConnick said. Citing pilots like
 
  Pappy Boyington
 
 and Chuck Yeager, she added, “You can have swagger and you can still be military.”

 At the same time, female readers were returning to comics, encouraged by new publication formats and more inclusive plots and characters.


 The revitalized Carol Danvers had become a central player in Marvel’s comics universe, and the publisher successfully introduced a diverse array of characters like
 
  a young new Spider-Man, Miles Morales
 
 , who is of black and Puerto Rican descent, and
 
  a new Ms. Marvel, Kamala Khan
 
 , who is a Muslim teenager.


 Most crucially, said Thompson, the current Captain Marvel author, “Marvel put their support behind these characters. You have to put good talent on their books, but you have to support and advertise for them and push them as premier characters. Let’s not ignore that part of the equation.”




 
  MARVEL’S MOVIES, HOWEVER, DID NOT KEEP PACE.
 
 The studio’s earliest releases were focused on
 
  establishing core male heroes like Iron Man, Captain America and Thor
 
 ; though its cinematic universe had included female characters like Black Widow (played by Scarlett Johansson) and the Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) as members of larger teams, there were no solo films in development for them.

 Even Marvel seemed prey to a longstanding Hollywood fallacy that while women will watch movies about men, men will not watch movies about women. “Because women are low-status in our culture,” DeConnick said, “you will aspire up, you will not cross-identify down.”

 That perception of the studio appeared to be reinforced by
 
  the leak of a 2014 email from Isaac Perlmutter
 
 , the chairman of Marvel Entertainment, in which he disparaged female superhero films like
 
  “Supergirl”
 
 (1984),
 
  “Catwoman”
 
 (2004) and
 
  “Elektra”
 
 (2005) for their poor box-office performances.


 Similarly, when the Marvel studio
 
  was reorganized in 2015
 
 , allowing its president, Kevin Feige, to report directly to Disney and sidestep Perlmutter, industry observers assumed that this gave Feige the freedom to pursue more diverse movies like “Black Panther” and “Captain Marvel.” (Marvel and Disney declined to comment on this.)


 Boden and Fleck, the “Captain Marvel” directors, said it was difficult to escape the grip of Hollywood tradition, in which most genre movies still focus on male leads.


 “Even looking at our own films, why did it take us five films to have one about a female protagonist?” Fleck said. “Hopefully we get to the point where these stories are being told all the time.”


 Asked what conclusions he and Boden had reached by reflecting on their own body of work, Fleck replied, “We haven’t arrived at the insights yet. I think they’re coming though.”


 For all of the unresolved questions that “Captain Marvel” raises, MacDonald, the Beat editor, said that Marvel still deserved credit for getting the movie produced and generating enthusiasm for the character.

 “There’s definitely a lot of history that they had to buck to get ‘Captain Marvel’ made,” she said. “They built a real basis for this character and a passion for what she stood for” as well as a fan base that is “very powerful.”


 She added, “Is it millions and millions of people? No, it isn’t. But it doesn’t need to be. It needs to be that core, that spark.”


 There is no expectation that “Captain Marvel” will match the monumental box-office results of last year’s “Black Panther,” which grossed $1.3 billion worldwide, or “Avengers: Infinity War,” which took in $2 billion globally and
 
  ended on a catastrophic cliffhanger
 
 that fans have waited almost a year to see resolved. By comparison, Marvel’s “Ant-Man and the Wasp,” a summer 2018 release that starred Paul Rudd and Evangeline Lilly, had global grosses of $622 million.


 
  Recent tracking reports estimate
 
 that “Captain Marvel” will bring in more than $100 million in its opening weekend, and MacDonald said the movie will probably appeal to multiple constituencies: not only fans of the character and women who want to watch female-led films, but also Marvel obsessives who want to see how it ties into Marvel’s next battle royale, “Avengers: Endgame,” which opens April 26.


 “Kevin Feige is very smart,” MacDonald said. “He’s releasing the movie that would be the hardest sell in a position where it’s going to lead into the greatest final act in movie history.”


 It’s unclear whether “Captain Marvel” will be the start of a trend or an outlier for Marvel. Hollywood trade publications have reported that the studio is preparing other female-led projects, including a Black Widow movie, starring Johansson and directed by Cate Shortland (“Lore”), and a film adaptation of the Eternals, directed by Chloé Zhao (“The Rider”). But Disney said it could not confirm Marvel’s development slate.

 Whether “Captain Marvel” can be a harbinger for other movies like it, Larson said, “is a larger question, a systemic thing.”


 “That change is scary,” she said, “and it takes time for it to come. It’s slow but it’s happening.”


 The only way such progress can happen, Larson said, is if she and her peers use the influence afforded by movies like “Captain Marvel” to strive for further changes and to make them permanent.


 “Part of why I’m pushing really hard now is because I do have a little bit of power, and I’m going to use it,” she said. “You don’t know when it’s going to shift again or who’s going to have the power next. But I’ll push it as far as I can. Because it’s the right thing to do.”

 An earlier version of this article misstated the kind of boots Captain Marvel wore before the character was reintroduced in 2012. In the preceding years, she wore thigh boots, not side boots. The earlier version also misstated which branch of the military Pappy Boyington served in. It was the Marines, not the Air Force.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   A.O. Scott
  
 

 One thing we learn in “Captain Marvel” is that it’s pronounced MarVELL, like the English poet — or at least it used to be, on distant planets and right here on Earth, a windy rock also known as C-53. That was back in 1995, when most of this movie takes place and when the world as we know it had not yet been colonized by the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Yes, of course, Marvel Comics had been around for decades, but when the heroine crashes through the roof of the Blockbuster Video store, landing in between the “Family” and “Drama” sections, there are no Avengers or Iron-Man titles on the shelves.


 Instead, she picks up a VHS box of
 
  “The Right Stuff,”
 
 which earns a mild chuckle, since while we know that she’s a space alien named Vers (rhymes with “cheers”), we also have reason to suspect that this young woman is connected with the United States Air Force, and maybe the space program, too, like the guys in that film. Also known as Carol Danvers, and played by Brie Larson, she has some of their bravado, and also — since she’s on the way to intergalactic superheroism — a righteous sense of mission and a burgeoning identity crisis.


 [
 
  
   Captain Marvel has had many, many identities in the comics.
  
 
 ]


 The last and least surprising thing we learn about her is that “Captain Marvel will return in ‘Avengers: Endgame,’” a scrappy little picture that will be released in seven weeks, if you can stand to wait that long. Directed by Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck from a script they wrote with Geneva Robertson-Dworet, “Captain Marvel” is an origin story, which is to say a résumé check for the newest member of popular culture’s biggest, most heavily capitalized corporate team.


 As such, it’s pretty good fun, and could almost be described without sarcasm as a scrappy little picture, like most of Boden and Fleck’s other work. (
 
  Their
 
 résumé includes
 
  “Half Nelson,"
 
 “Sugar” and “It’s Kind of a Funny Story”). It’s not too long, not too self-important, and benefits from the craft and talent of a cast that includes Annette Bening, Jude Law and Ben Mendelsohn.

 And of course Samuel L. Jackson, who plays a young, two-eyed S.H.I.E.L.D. agent named Nicholas Fury. How Fury lost one of those eyes is the big spoiler to avoid here, and the character’s extended presence, after so many agitated cameos over the years, is a big part of the movie’s appeal. To watch the digitally rejuvenated Jackson riding around mid-90s Los Angeles, sort of like he did in “Pulp Fiction,” is to indulge in a bit of Gen-X nostalgia, a mood augmented by period-appropriate musical cues from Salt-N-Pepa, TLC and Nirvana.


 
  [
 
 
  
   Can ‘Captain Marvel’ fix Marvel’s woman problem?
  
 
 
  ]
 


 There are pay phones and pagers, too, and boxy government cars and all kinds of stuff that kids these days just don’t appreciate. Even the science-fiction elements have a mildly retro, “Star Trek: The Next Generation” feel. And the overall vibe, for all the fireballs and fisticuffs, is decidedly friendly. In addition to the Vers/Fury buddy-movie pairing, there is a best friend for Carol (a fellow pilot named Maria Rambeau, played by Lashana Lynch) and a succession of frenemies. Best of all, there is an orange cat.
 
  I will never hate a movie with an orange cat.
 


 The plot of “Captain Marvel,” for some reason, is another secret I’m supposed to keep. Which is fine. In spite of what some unhinged fans on social media might say, I was not paid by Disney to explain anything. Boden and Fleck were, and they do a perfectly adequate job. There’s a big war going on between the Kree — Vers’s people, at least as far as she knows — and the Skrull, green-skinned, pointy-eared beings who have the unnerving skill of turning into doppelgängers of anyone they see. Annette Bening is involved. We first see her as a manifestation of Supreme Intelligence, which seems accurate enough. I’ll say no more.

 The twists in the story reveal a slyly anti-imperialist politics, which is both in keeping with the pluralist ethic of the Avengers cycle and just a bit subversive of the Disney-Marvel agenda of universal domination. The most sympathetic group of characters wants nothing more than to go somewhere else, to escape from the annihilating attention of their would-be conquerors. They might represent various oppressed and dispossessed earthly populations. They might also stand in for that portion of the movie audience that feels the cinematic universe shrinking around them.

 Not that anyone can stop the Marvel Cinematic Universe from expanding. By now the contradictions of this gigantic enterprise are obvious enough. It’s inclusive and monopolistic, predatory and empowering. Every episode is unique — every hero is a complex individual with a singular back story — within an overall structure of sameness.


 Filmmakers like Boden and Fleck, Ryan Coogler and Taika Waititi can put their own spin on a given story or hero, but at some point bolts or waves of orange or blue light will come shooting out of someone’s hands and someone else will be thrown backward and bounce off a wall. The protagonist’s costume will become a character in its own right. That protagonist — a tough and charming woman, in this case, determined to fight gender clichés at least to a draw — will be ready for a career of franchise clock-punching, along with the rest of us. You will stay through the very last credits in the hope of collecting every last Easter egg, and you’ll shuffle out of the theater feeling both satisfied and empty.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Captain Marvel
 
 Rated PG-13. The usual comic-book action. Running time: 2 hours 4 minutes.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 Brie Larson is bringing Captain Marvel to the big screen in the latest film from Marvel Studios. Her adventure is set in the 1990s, but the exploits of Captain Marvel date to 1939, when Billy Batson followed a stranger into a subway and was granted powers by a wizard to transform himself into the mighty hero. Since then, many men and women have borne the name
 
  Captain Marvel
 
 , as well as a sexually fluid alien. Here is a colorful selection.


 In 1939,
 
  Billy Batson
 
 , an orphaned newspaper boy, turned into the Fawcett Comics hero Captain Marvel with one magic word — Shazam! No villains could stop him, but a later lawsuit nearly did. National Comics (the forerunner of DC Comics) thought Captain Marvel, who was strong and could fly and sometimes outsold “Superman,” was too close to the Man of Steel and cried copyright infringement. Fawcett retired the character in 1953, but nearly 20 years later, DC licensed him for new comics. Still, the series could not be called Captain Marvel, because Marvel had grabbed the trademark for its own hero in 1966. These days, Batson goes by Shazam (he cannot say his own name lest he transform) and will get
 
  his own film
 
 , starring Zachary Levi, next month.


 
  [Meet
 
 
  
   the cats who played Goose
  
 
 
  in “Captain Marvel.” | Can the movie solve
 
 
  
   Marvel Studios’ woman problem
  
 
 
  ]
 

 Bursting on to the scene in 1966,
 
  Mar-Vell
 
 started out as a spy for the alien Kree race before siding with Earth. This version of the hero was originally a silver-haired hunk, but editors feared his hair color made him look old. He was given a spiffy new costume and later a dye job, leaving him with his better known golden tresses. Sadly, he lost his battle with cancer in 1982. More shockingly, Mar-Vell has remained dead, despite comics’ love of resurrections. His genetically engineered son, Genis-Vell, burst onto the scene as Legacy but later took the name Captain Marvel, bearing it until he was killed in 2006. Spoiler: Mar-Vell has an unexpected role in the new film.


 In 1967,
 
  Carol Danvers
 
 was introduced as an Air Force officer who encountered the alien Captain Marvel. In 1976, Danvers became Ms. Marvel, whose costume was a variation of Mar-Vell’s, albeit more revealing. She later lost her memories and powers, and alien experiments transformed her to Binary, who gets in a spectacular revenge punch against the woman behind her earlier woes. Danvers then became Warbird, joined the Avengers and struggled with alcoholism, before finally taking on the mantle of Captain Marvel (with an appropriate military-inspired uniform).

 Introduced in 1982,
 
  Monica Rambeau
 
 worked for the New Orleans harbor patrol. An encounter with cosmic energy infused her with the ability to convert her body into any form of energy. She joined the Avengers to better understand her abilities and excelled, eventually mastering her powers and becoming chairwoman of the team for a time. Rambeau was Captain Marvel for 14 years. She ceded the name to Mar-Vell’s son and became Photon (and, later, Pulsar and Spectrum). The “Captain Marvel” film includes a character named Maria Rambeau (played by Lashana Lynch), an Air Force pilot whose call sign is Photon and who has a young daughter named Monica.


 This alien hero crash-landed on Earth in 2000 and quickly found himself at odds with Doctor Midas, who was obsessed with the energy that gave the Fantastic Four their powers, and Hexus, a corporation that became sentient (and evil). Noh-Varr joined the Avengers as Captain Marvel and later became known as the Protector. As a space-faring Kree, the triple-jointed
 
  Nor-Varr
 
 has a fluid view of sexuality. “We consider these things carefully,” he once told his Young Avengers teammates. “I was aboard an exploratory vessel, after all. Exploratory does have multiple meanings. The Kree are efficient like that.”


 When her series began in 2014,
 
  Kamala Khan
 
 was a Muslim teenager living in Jersey City and a big fan of the Carol Danvers version of Captain Marvel. When Khan’s powers activated, she became the local hero Ms. Marvel, telling her idol in a feverish dream: “I want to be you. Except I would wear the classic, politically incorrect costume and kick butt in giant wedge heels.” Since then, Khan has expanded her reach globally with the Champions, a squad of teenage superheroes, and seems likely to be promoted to Captain one day. In the meantime, maybe fans will get a big-screen cameo? At a news conference last month, Brie Larson was asked which hero she would like to meet in a sequel. “My dream would be that Ms. Marvel gets to come into play,”
 
  she said.
 

 An earlier version of this article misstated the date that the character Monica Rambeau was introduced into the Marvel comics universe. It was 1982, not 1987.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 As “Captain Marvel” swooped into its second weekend in theaters on Friday, the question wasn’t really whether it would top domestic ticket sales, but by how much.


 Disney-Marvel can breathe easy. Their latest superhero origin story, the
 
  first film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe dedicated to a female superhero
 
 , sold an estimated $69.3 million in tickets nationwide this weekend, bringing its North American total to around $266.2 million.


 That’s a higher figure than the lifetime domestic gross of “Captain America: The Winter Soldier” ($259.8 million), and already makes “Captain Marvel” the 13th-best-selling film in the current 21-movie Marvel series — with room to grow.


 “Captain Marvel” has done well internationally, too, with $120 million in overseas sales this weekend, according to the studio, for a global total of $760 million. While the figures aren’t earth-shattering, they indicate a solid success for Disney-Marvel.

 
  [
 
 
  
   Read our critic’s review of “Captain Marvel.”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 That success came despite attempts by trolls to derail “Captain Marvel.” Ahead of its release, the film was the target of efforts at online sabotage by users apparently lashing out against its star, Brie Larson, who has been outspoken in her support of more diverse representation in Hollywood movies. The campaign
 
  prompted the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes to make major changes to its longstanding rules,
 
 including the elimination of audience reviews for movies that have not yet been released.


 Free from any targeted online attack was Paramount’s “Wonder Park,” an animated family movie about a young girl who
 
  dreams up plans for an amusement park
 
 and sees them colorfully brought to life. That movie sold $16 million in tickets domestically this weekend, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data. While a far cry from “Captain Marvel,” the figure was more than enough to land “Wonder Park” in second place.


 The only other newcomer in the top five was Lionsgate and CBS Films’s “Five Feet Apart,” in third. The movie, about a couple whose shared genetic disorder forces them to maintain physical distance from each other despite their growing romance, sold $13.2 million in tickets.

 An earlier version of this article omitted the name of a distributor of “Five Feet Apart.” The movie is distributed by Lionsgate and CBS Films, not just Lionsgate.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 in her words


 Those who targeted the new superhero film were, in part, incited by comments made by its star, Brie Larson, who called it a “big feminist movie.”


 By
 
 
  
   Maya Salam
  
 

 
  You’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines.
 
 
  
   Sign up
  
 
 
  here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at
 
 
  
   dearmaya@nytimes.com
  
 
 .


 
  “This is not a revolution, it’s a restoration. Girls have always read comics.”
 


 
  —
 
 
  
   Kelly Sue DeConnick
  
 
 
  , the comic book writer whose reimagining of Captain Marvel was the basis of the new film
 


 Trolls tried to torpedo the new “Captain Marvel” movie — but in the end, the
 
 shero Carol Danvers
 
 (who’s been Captain Marvel in the comic books since 2012) prevailed. The film sailed past $500 million in
 
  ticket sales
 
 in its first week
 
 .


 ICYMI: Within hours of the movie’s
 
 release
 
 on March 8 (International Women’s Day), in what appeared to be a concerted effort,
 
 some 58,000
 
 online reviews of “Captain Marvel” had
 
 tanked its rating on Rotten Tomatoes
 
 — leaving the film with
 
 an abysmal score of around 30 percent.


 Rotten Tomatoes
 
 fixed the problem by that afternoon,
 
  removing about 50,000
 
 of the reviews
 
 , which the site said had been written before the film was released. Among other measures, the site swiftly eliminated prerelease audience reviews altogether.


 “We’re doing it to more accurately and authentically represent the voice of fans,” the site said, “while protecting our data and public forums from bad actors.
 
 ”
 


 Now, the movie’s audience score is around 62 percent, and the “Tomatometer,” which analyzes ratings from film critics, is at 79 percent, slightly below the average for Marvel movies.

 
  [
 
 
  
   READ MORE: When ‘Captain Marvel’ Became a Target, the Rules Changed
  
 
 
  ]
 


 But “Captain Marvel” is not the only recent female-led film in the comic or sci-fi realm to be swarmed by trolls. As my colleague Cara Buckley
 
  wrote this week
 
 : “The all-female remake of ‘Ghostbusters,’ ‘Black Panther’ and ‘Star Wars: The Last Jedi,’ which had a diverse cast, all found themselves in the cross hairs of armchair critics, some aligned with alt-right groups.”


 Last year, a Facebook group called “Down with Disney’s Treatment of Franchises and Its Fanboys” posted an event called “Give Black Panther a Rotten Audience Score on Rotten Tomatoes.” The group had also
 
  claimed responsibility
 
 for sinking scores for “Star Wars: The Last Jedi.”


 Those who appeared to have targeted “Captain Marvel” were most likely incited by comments made by Brie Larson, the titular star. Last year, Larson vowed to seek out more underrepresented journalists after noticing she was being interviewed by mostly white men. She had a similar critique about film critics: “I do not need a 40-year-old white dude to tell me what didn’t work for him about ‘A Wrinkle in Time.’ It wasn’t made for him.”


 She also told “
 
  Entertainment Tonight
 
 ” that the vision for the film was clear during an early meeting with Marvel: Make “a big feminist movie.”


 Even if the trolls tried to stop her, make a big feminist movie she did.


 
  
   
    Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!
   
  
 


 ______


 As the “Star Wars” heroines Padmé Amidala and Princess Leia fell in love with
 
 Anakin Skywalker and
 
  
  
 
 Han Solo
 
 , respectively, their outfits grew more skimpy, they grew more helpless, and their focus shifted away from their roles as political leaders and toward more passive roles as romantic partners, according to a
 
  new study
 
 by researchers at Florida State University.

 "Objectification is obvious with costumes like Leia's gold bikini or Padmé’s black leather corset dress,” said Mary C. King, one of the researchers. But it was the many subtle ways that characters’ looks were altered — more color, softer hairstyles — that she said surprised researchers the most.


 ______


 
  Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.
 

 
  “You felt like you were a piece of meat.”
 
 Female veterans say a culture of harassment and discrimination exists in the V.A. medical system. [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  “I believe fundamentally there was a gender bias at issue.”
 
 After 55,000 old rape kits were finally tested with funds provided by the Manhattan district attorney’s office, 64 attackers were convicted. [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 
  “I am cozy because I have to be. I am cozy to survive.”
 
 Lena Dunham writes about her struggle with chronic pain and how coziness is her “religion.” [
 
  Read the story
 
 ]

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Dave Itzkoff
  
 

 Today, we think of Marvel as the monolithic studio that each year reliably releases two or three blockbusters based on its costume-clad comic-book superheroes. It has built movies like
 
  “Captain Marvel”
 
 and
 
  “Black Panther”
 
 into money-minting franchises, and when its latest offering,
 
  “Avengers: Endgame,”
 
 is released on April 26, it will conclude a narrative spanning some 22 films that started with
 
  “Iron Man”
 
 in 2008.


 But Marvel’s prosperous future was hardly a certainty a decade or so ago. In the mid-2000s it was a smaller, inexperienced company that controlled the film rights for only a few of its lesser-known characters — other studios had already brought “X-Men,” “Spider-Man” and “Fantastic Four” to theaters — at a time when no one in Hollywood was yet contemplating the idea of an interconnected universe of superhero movies.


 That changed with the help of people like Kevin Feige, who had been an associate producer on “X-Men” before Marvel hired him in 2000; and
 
  Robert Downey Jr.
 
 , the veteran actor who was almost no one’s idea of a mass-market magnet when he emerged as a candidate to play Tony Stark, the eccentric billionaire hero of “Iron Man.”

 In interviews, Feige, now the president of Marvel Studios, and Downey — a star of three “Iron Man”s, four “Avengers” and a “Spider-Man” — spoke about the origins of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the choices they made, and what it’s all meant as “Endgame” approaches. Here are edited excerpts from those conversations.

 
  KEVIN FEIGE
 
 In 2006, when we were making our first appearance as our own studio at Comic-Con, the articles written around that were basically: “Marvel’s going to try to make movies themselves now. Too bad they’ve got to scrape the bottom of the barrel.” And I remember feeling, wow, I don’t think it’s the bottom of the barrel.


 Initially, there were 10 characters on an official list. And Iron Man was not one of them. Iron Man became one of them when the rights reverted back to Marvel from [New Line Cinema], it instantly went to the top of the list. We were very excited that we could do something different with that film. We had that and
 
  “The Incredible Hulk”
 
 in the same year. And internally, at Marvel corporate, “Hulk” — by far, the better-known property — seemed like the slam-dunk and “Iron Man” seemed like the risk.

 
  Marvel started hiring cast and crew for “Iron Man” in 2006 — first, the director Jon Favreau and then its star, Robert Downey Jr., both of whom were coming off recent flops.
 

 
  ROBERT DOWNEY JR.
 
 Jon and I had this connection. He’d had a movie that I very much enjoyed, and I’d had one that he very much enjoyed, bomb at the same time. His was
 
  “Zathura”
 
 and mine was
 
  “Kiss Kiss Bang Bang.”
 
 And “Zathura” put him in a position to be considered viable and capable of doing an effects-driven movie. And “Kiss Kiss Bang Bang,” if not the best movie I’ve ever done, it’s the one I made the fewest mistakes in as an actor.


 
  FEIGE
 
 I was so impressed with
 
  “Elf”
 
 [directed by Favreau], which could simply have been a silly comedy but had so much heart and depth to it. It has actually great action sequences in it. If you remember,
 
  when Santa’s sleigh doesn’t have enough magic power
 
 and the world has to sing — it’s barely lifting out of Central Park and then it rockets over Fifth Avenue, I found myself cheering in a theater at this Will Ferrell comedy.

 I have a distinct memory of being in this bullpen area of our production office, kicking around ideas with Jon, and Robert’s name came up. We both stopped and looked at each other, like: “Oh, that would be awesome. But nah, you can’t do that. Anyway, who else?” And we kept coming back to that.


 
  DOWNEY
 
 I took a meeting at Marvel. And then I was very pushy, to be honest, which is not really in my nature. But I just had a sneaking suspicion that I had nothing to lose. I decided to take it more seriously than I’d ever taken anything. I felt confident, and then I was told that the meeting went well but I wouldn’t put too much on it, it’s probably not going to go your way. I refused to let go of it.


 
  FEIGE
 
 I remember saying to a room full of marketing executives: “If we do our job right, the name Tony Stark will be as famous as the name Iron Man. Because unlike a lot of hero movies, this character is as interesting and as engaging outside of his costume, as he is inside of his costume.” [Downey had] not done something like this before, which meant, I felt, a screen test would help convince anybody that needed to be convinced. He, to his credit, was absolutely willing to audition for it.

 
  DOWNEY
 
 I’m
 
  married to a producer
 
 , and I think it’s odd if somebody thinks they’re above any part of any process that’s required for any project. I’ve never said, “I don’t do that anymore.” [Pause] Nowadays I might.

 
  Filming for “Iron Man” took place in 2007, at soundstages on the former site of the Hughes Aircraft Company in Los Angeles.
 


 
  DOWNEY
 
 We were at an assembly hangar where they made the Spruce Goose. We haven’t started shooting yet and we decide to take out a bunch of pellet pistols and put on protective eyewear, and me and Favreau and a couple other folks literally had a psychotic shootout. And I just thought that was the dumbest, unnecessary, insurance-risk thing I’ve ever done — and that’s really saying something. It was our comic-book D-Day. We knew it was upon us and we were about to start something that could wind up being culturally significant.


 
  During production of “Iron Man,” Feige had a flash of inspiration.
 


 
  FEIGE
 
 I got a call from Carter Cohn, who represents Sam Jackson, and he goes, “Sam’s a big fan — do you guys have anything for him?” And in
 
  the Ultimate line of Marvel Comics
 
 , they had been drawing Nick Fury exactly as Sam Jackson. I went: “Oh.
 
  What if he did a cameo for us as Nick Fury?
 
 ” We put it at the end of the credits so that really only hard-core fans were there. We didn’t interrupt the movie, where people go: “Why is Sam Jackson wearing an eyepatch? What’s going on?” And then, a couple months after “Iron Man,” “The Incredible Hulk” came out and
 
  Robert Downey walks into the end of that movie
 
 . We could see that, in a best-case scenario, we could start building the universe.


 
  Moviegoers got one of their first looks at “Iron Man” in the summer of 2007, when Favreau, Downey and the cast introduced
 
 
  
   footage from the film
  
 
 
 
 
  
   at Comic-Con International
  
 
 
  in San Diego.
 

 
  DOWNEY
 
 My missus always says the one thing she’ll never forget is watching me watch the footage at Comic-Con. Because she said I was literally trembling with excitement and satisfaction. And then I went to go shoot
 
  “Tropic Thunder.”
 
 I was showing Ben Stiller some of the footage from Comic-Con. He just looked at me in the most matter-of-fact way and said: “That movie’s going to be a hit. O.K., let’s get back to set and rehearse this scene.” I was like, Oh. He doesn’t just say that sort of stuff. So that was really cool.


 
  “Iron Man” was released on May 2, 2008. In its opening weekend, it grossed more than $98 million, and future Marvel movies were no longer a possibility but a certainty.
 


 
  DOWNEY
 
 We were at Giorgio Baldi, which is a famous Italian joint. We had a little private room there on Friday night as the numbers came in from Paramount. And I felt like we were at a horse race and we were all betting on ourselves, and we kept betting higher. I was like, “We’re going to break 85 [million]!”


 
  FEIGE
 
 That Monday after the opening weekend, we announced dates for “Iron Man 2,” “Thor,” “Captain America” and “Avengers.” I remember being very excited that the movie worked well enough that we could do this. We’re gonna do the plan! This is going to be a big deal. And the press did not treat it like a big deal. It was a footnote to an article about the success of the “Iron Man” opening weekend. And I went, Oh, I guess people don’t get it yet. [Laughs]


 
  DOWNEY
 
 The real daunting thing was, oh, that’s right, we have to go do this again. We get a year break, and I stayed very busy that year, and then we had to do it again. The word “franchise” is a verb, if you ask me. You are iterating something that needs to be recreated in some way and expanded upon every time.

 
  FEIGE
 
 I started to use phrases like “Phase 1 of the MCU,” because I didn’t want to merely think of an “Iron Man” trilogy or a “Thor” trilogy. Which is really the way most people had been conditioned to think about franchises. It all came from the comics — individual characters would occasionally come together for a mega-event limited series, in which everything would change, and then they would go back into their own comics, with the new powers or the new costumes or the psychological changes from that big adventure. That’s what we could do with one phase, and then an “Avengers” movie, a second phase, another “Avengers” movie, and then a third one to close it out.

 
  DOWNEY
 
 The first “Avengers” tour was just mind-bogglingly cool and strange, considering that the film was about to be released but was already being treated like it was a phenomenon. The sheer fact that the world was going, oh, you actually got a lot of actors and actresses to get along for long enough.


 
  As this latest phase of Marvel movies nears its conclusion, Feige and Downey tried to summarize the experience.
 


 
  FEIGE
 
 This has been my life for the better part of a decade. I’ve gotten married in that decade. I’ve had two kids in that decade. And I’ve produced 23 movies in that decade. I almost don’t want to stop and think about it, for fear of getting blubbery and embarrassing myself.


 
  DOWNEY
 
 If someone had walked into Giorgio Baldi that night and said, hey guys, I’m 10 Years From The Future Guy, let me tell what you started here. You would just go, “No, what if this goes wrong?” You’d be tripping on the what-if’s. It’s a faith-based activity.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Bruce Fretts
  
 

 As the final trailer for
 
  “Avengers: Endgame”
 
 opens, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) calls heroes “an old-fashioned notion.” But it’s one that still sells, as we’re reminded in this two-and-a-half-minute clip summarizing the 21 films that have led up to this installment.

 Starting with Robert Downey Jr.’s
 
  “Iron Man”
 
 in 2008, the Marvel Cinematic Universe has grown to include Captain America (Chris Evans), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Doctor Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch), Ant-Man (Paul Rudd), Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman), Captain Marvel (Brie Larson), the Guardians of the Galaxy and more.


 The trailer brings back memories, some more vivid than others. Remember when the
 
  Incredible Hulk got his own movie
 
 ? The footage avoids showing Edward Norton, who originated the role before Mark Ruffalo took it over. Or when Robert Redford played the villain in “
 
  Captain America: The Winter Soldier
 
 ”? That was weird.

 Breaking chronological order, the spot culminates with “Avengers: Infinity War” (which came out before “Ant-Man and the Wasp” and “Captain Marvel”). In it, Thanos (
 
  Josh Brolin
 
 ) wiped out half the world’s population and a good chunk of the Avengers. But Captain America promises to do “whatever it takes” to get payback.


 “Avengers: Endgame” will officially hit theaters on April 26.

 An earlier version of this article misstated the timing of “Black Panther’s” release. It opened before “Avengers: Infinity War,” not after.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Bruce Fretts
  
 

 You can be forgiven if you feel as if you’ve seen it all before when you start watching the new trailer for “Avengers: Endgame.” Disney has already released
 
  two other
 
 
  promotional clips
 
 for its forthcoming superhero movie, and the latest uses footage from previous films going all the way back to “Iron Man,” which officially kicked off the Marvel Cinematic Universe in 2008.

 As Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) himself puts it, “God, it seems like a thousand years ago, I fought my way out of that cave, became Iron Man.” Scenes from later films in the series, including “
 
  Captain America: The First Avenger
 
 ” and
 
  “Thor,”
 
 follow.


 It all seemingly culminates with the conclusion to the cliffhanger from last year’s “Avengers: Infinity War,” in which many of the titular crime-fighters disintegrated, and the survivors vowed to, yes, avenge their apparent deaths.

 Finally, after the film’s title flashes on the screen, there’s a new face: Captain Marvel (Brie Larson) — fresh off her
 
  $500 million-plus opening
 
 week at the worldwide box office — appears, and Thor (Chris Hemsworth) declares, “I like this one.”


 Whether moviegoers have a similar feeling about “Avengers: Endgame” will be determined when the film hits theaters on April 26.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 LOS ANGELES — The directors of "Avengers: Endgame" pleaded with fans on Tuesday not to spoil the movie by giving away storylines after reports that some scenes had leaked online.


 In an open letter posted on Twitter under the hashtag #DontSpoilTheEndgame, Joe and Anthony Russo said they and the vast cast of the upcoming Marvel superhero movie "have worked tirelessly for the last three years with the sole intention of delivering a surprising and emotionally powerful conclusion" to the saga.


 "When you see Endgame in coming weeks, please don't spoil it for others, the same way you wouldn't want it spoiled for you," they added.


 Walt Disney Co's "Avengers: Endgame" marks the conclusion of a story told across 22 Marvel films. The plot has been shrouded in secrecy, with no advance screenings for the entertainment press. Sales of advance tickets earlier this month surpassed those of 2015 movie "Star Wars: The Force Awakens."

 The film, which brings together multiple comic book characters, starts its rollout on April 24 in Australia and China before arriving in the United States on April 25.


 Some fans said on Tuesday they had seen brief, grainy scenes on Reddit, YouTube and other platforms, but the footage was swiftly removed. Reuters has not seen the leaked scenes and Disney declined to comment.


 The #DontSpoilTheEnding hashtag was one of the top Twitter trends on Tuesday. Some fans who said they had viewed the leaks said they only increased their anticipation for the movie.


 "I was upset for about 0.2 seconds then realized how cool it was and it made me so hyped," a person with the user name thestaggie posted on Reddit.


 Chris Smith, a contributor to the BGR.com entertainment and tech news site, wrote that he had seen a leak but that it "doesn't really give away the ending" of the movie, although it contained scenes that had not been shown in any of the trailers or official clips released so far.

 "I don’t consider that the leak has actually ruined the movie for me. It just makes me want to watch it even more than I already did," wrote Smith.


 (Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Peter Cooney)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 LOS ANGELES — About five years ago, Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige found himself on a retreat in Palm Springs plotting the future for the wild, experimental "cinematic universe" that he helped start in 2008 . He wanted to do something that they hadn't done. He wanted an ending.


 And after a quick pitch to Robert Downey Jr., he, directors Anthony and Joe Russo and screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, started plotting a way to bring this saga to a close, brainstorming whenever they had a moment — even in between takes of "Captain America: Civil War."


 Anyone who saw "Avengers: Infinity War" knows they weren't kidding around either. Thanos literally dissolved half of humanity, including Spider-Man and Black Panther in an event known as "the snap" that's inspired tears, memes and more fan theories than the internet can hold. Talk about a cliffhanger.


 Endings are a rarity in the franchise movie-making business; especially when one's popularity has only multiplied as the movies of Marvel have. But Marvel Studios, which has never shied away from a little rule-breaking, is taking a sledgehammer to that old "don't leave money on the table" maxim, and audiences will finally be able to see how they do it when "Avengers: Endgame" opens nationwide on April 25.

 "(Ending) is not a scary word," Feige said. "It's a necessary word."


 What exactly that means for the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) is something of a state secret. Feige said that this will be "definitive," though.


 "People can debate and discuss what that means before they see the movie," Feige said. "But for us that means bringing to a conclusion the first three phases, the first 22 films in the MCU, so that everything thereafter is a new start."


 So "new" in fact that Feige won't even discuss what's to come beyond the July release of "Spider-Man: Far From Home." He won't confirm reportedly in-the-works projects like the "Black Widow" stand-alone, "The Eternals" or "Shang-Chi," or talk about plans for the 20th Century Fox properties like "Deadpool" and "X-Men" that are now under his purview.


 They have the next five years mapped out; they're just not letting audiences peek behind the curtain until after "Endgame." It's that big.


 "How we leave 'Endgame' will help define where we're going for many people," Feige said.


 But how does one talk about a movie that no press has seen and no actors or creators are allowed to discuss in detail? Well, carefully and cryptically.

 We know some things. That the heroes left like Iron Man (Downey Jr.), Captain America (Chris Evans), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Hulk (Mark Ruffalo) and War Machine(Don Cheadle) are dealing with the devastating loss post-snap while trying to figure out what to do with Thanos. A helpful "Avenge the Fallen" campaign served as a reminder of who survived and who didn't (some of the dusted were even a surprise, like "Black Panther's" Shuri). We also know they have a new weapon in Brie Larson's Captain Marvel, who Samuel L. Jackson's Nick Fury managed to page before dissolving into dust.


 Will characters die, though? Probably. Will the ones lost in "the snap," remain gone? Unclear (although some who have upcoming movies, like, say Spider-Man, won't). But the cast and filmmakers aren't giving anything up, or even commenting on the fact that this might be the last of Evans as Captain America, which the actor himself tweeted about months ago.


 "I still don't know what happens in this movie," said Larson, who actually even filmed her scenes in "Endgame" before "Captain Marvel," which came out earlier this year.


 Filming proved an emotional experience for many of the actors, a lot of whom have now been working together for almost a decade or more.


 "I was pretty teary-eyed," Evans said. "This is the culmination of a really long endeavor. It kind of wraps up the journey for a lot of these characters."


 It led to a lot of reflection, about where they started and how they've grown. Johansson noted that she'd been developing her character for 10 years now, and is excited that Black Widow has evolved from a "sexy secretary" type to a more fully realized woman.


 "The whole shoot felt pretty nostalgic," Hemsworth added. "We were constantly talking about when it all started to how we pulled this off and what we were a part of."

 But he also admits he was "kind of happy to get off the set." An eight month shoot can wear even on Thor.


 And indeed the shoot was grueling. The directors, who did "Winter Soldier," ''Civil War" and "Infinity War" said it was the hardest of their life.


 "This went far beyond anything we'd ever done before," said Anthony Russo. "There's a reason why movies aren't made this way normally."


 But that this was unconventional was also the draw.


 "I think the only reason we stuck around, is because they were committed to an ending and we're deconstructionists," said Joe Russo. "We like to take things apart and see the ramifications of what happens. 'Winter Soldier' the good guys became the bad guys, 'Civil War,' we divorced the heroes, 'Infinity War,' we killed half of them. We like to smash it and look at how you can put the pieces back together."


 And no one, not even Feige, regrets putting the MCU on this one-way path. That's not to say he never second guesses himself, however.


 Two weeks before "Infinity War" came out he had a moment of panic about the snap.


 "That ending was one of the reasons why we wanted to make the movie. That's how we sold it to Disney. We were confident in it," Feige said. "But then a week or two weeks before the film came out, I went, 'Oh no. We're killing all these people. What if the audience totally rejects it?'"


 Speaking just a few weeks before "Endgame" is unleashed on the world, Feige has found himself in a familiar spot.

 Feige said: "It's not until the movie is completely finished, which 'Endgame' is now completely finished, when you can't touch it any more that you go, 'Wait a minute: Should we have touched it more?'"


 ___


 AP Entertainment Reporter Marcela Isaza contributed from Los Angeles.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 LOS ANGELES — Marvel's Avengers are back to save the world, and the box office.


 "Avengers: Endgame" arrives in theaters on April 26 with the conclusion of the fight between the galaxy's greatest heroes and Thanos, who wiped out half of all life at the end of last year's "Avengers: Infinity War." It's one of the year's biggest releases, and one that many theater owners are hoping will draw huge audiences after a sluggish start to the year at the box office.


 It is the 22nd film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, a collection of movies that kicked off with 2008's "Iron Man." Since then, Marvel films have earned $18.6 billion at the box office, with the four "Avengers" films accounting for nearly $5 billion of that haul. Seven of the films, including this year's "Captain Marvel" and last year's sensation "Black Panther," have earned more than a billion dollars worldwide.


 The following is a look at how Marvel has built its cinematic juggernaut, with the film's title, release date, domestic gross and total worldwide box office, as compiled by Comscore:


 ___


 "Iron Man," May 2008, $318.6 million, $582 million


 "The Incredible Hulk," June 2008, $134.8 million, $263.3 million


 "Iron Man 2," May 2010, $312.4 million, $623.7 million


 "Thor," May 2010, $181 million, $448.7 million

 "Captain America: The First Avenger," July 2011, $176.7 million, $371 million


 "Marvel's The Avengers," May 2012, $623.4 million, $1.52 billion


 "Iron Man 3," May 2013, $409 million, $1.2 billion


 "Thor: The Dark World," November 2013, $206.4 million, $645 million


 "Captain America: The Winter Soldier," April 2014, $260 million, $714.3 million


 "Guardians of the Galaxy," August 2014, $333.2 million, $773.3 million


 "Avengers: Age of Ultron," May 2015, $459 million, $1.4 billion


 "Ant-Man," July 2015, $180.2 million, $519.3 million


 "Captain America: Civil War," May 2016, $408.1 million, $1.15 billion


 "Doctor Strange," May 2016, $232.6 million, $677.6 million

 "Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2," May 2017, $390 million, $863.6 million


 "Spider-Man: Homecoming," July 2017, $334.2 million, $880.2 million


 "Thor: Ragnarok," November 2017, $315 million, $854.2 million


 "Black Panther," February 2018, $700 million, $1.3 billion


 "Avengers: Infinity War," April 2018, $679 million, $2 billion


 "Ant-Man &amp; The Wasp," July 2018, $217 million, $623 million


 "Captain Marvel," March 2019, $387 million; $1.06 billion


 ___


 Source: Comscore

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Bruce Fretts
  
 

 Super Bowl LIII was a low-scoring game, and the trailers that debuted during the telecast kept their running times down as well. The ad for the Dwayne Johnson-Jason Statham “Fast &amp; Furious” spinoff,
 
  “Hobbs &amp; Shaw,”
 
 was a one-minute version of the three-minute trailer that was released online Friday, and most of the other clips ran 30 seconds — or half that, in the case of teasers for “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark.” Here’s this year’s lineup.


 
  [How
 
 
  
   the Patriots’ won
  
 
 
  their sixth Super Bowl. |
 
 
  
   A review
  
 
 
  of Maroon 5’s halftime show.]
 


 
  “Captain Marvel” (March 8):
 
 The latest ad for the superheroine vehicle starts like a gender-switch reboot of “Top Gun,” as Carol Danvers (Brie Larson) and a fellow female Air Force pilot (Lashana Lynch) bond over their mutual need for speed. The commercial introduces a new catchphrase — “higher, further, faster” — and lives up to it with a lightning-quick montage that sets pulses racing.

 
  “Avengers: Endgame” (April 26):
 
 “Where do we go, now that they’re gone?” reads a sign in this spot. Of course, the Avengers aren’t all gone, even though many of them disintegrated at the end of “Infinity War” last year. We get glimpses of some survivors, like Ant-Man (Paul Rudd), Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), Thor (Chris Hemsworth) and Rocket Raccoon (voiced by Bradley Cooper). “Some people move on,” says Steve Rogers (Chris Evans), a.k.a. Captain America, “but not us.” Marvel fans won’t either, after this stirring teaser.

 
  “Toy Story 4” (June 21):
 
 Forget
 
  Julian Edelman
 
 — Jordan Peele was this year’s Super Bowl M.V.P. He appeared in an ad for his forthcoming CBS All Access remake of “The Twilight Zone,” rolled out another spot for his sophomore directorial effort, “Us,” and rejoined his old sketch-show pal Keegan-Michael Key to voice one of the stuffed animals who torment Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) in this amusing trailer for Pixar’s sequel. Does Peele ever sleep?

 
  “Us” (March 22):
 
 After terrifying Christmas Day viewers with
 
  the first trailer
 
 for his follow-up to “Get Out,” Peele scored more scares with the second clip. The focus is on Lupita Nyong’o as a mother whose family of four faces deadly doppelgängers while on a beach vacation from hell. There’s not a lot of new footage here, but the spot does debut a clever tagline: “Watch yourself.” Indeed.

 
  “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” (August):
 
 This quartet of 15-second mini-trailers is so dark and brief that it’s hard to tell what the hell’s going on, much less if it’s scary. The ads also promise that this adaptation of the best-selling young-adult books is “from Guillermo del Toro,” but the mastermind behind “The Shape of Water” only produced this movie — he didn’t direct it (that would be Andre Ovredal). Boo!

 
  “Wonder Park” (March 15):
 
 “This is beginning to feel like a terrible turn of events for us all,” says John Oliver, perhaps all too aptly voicing a porcupine in this confusingly frenetic trailer for a cartoon about a young girl whose imaginary amusement park comes to life. Is riding on a fish carousel really a common fantasy among children? And what exactly are “chimpanzombies”? The flying moneys from “The Wizard of Oz” were creepy enough, thanks.

 
  “Alita: Battle Angel” (Feb. 14):
 
 Rosa Salazar plays the title role in this James Cameron-produced sci-fi drama, but the latest spot emphasizes Mahershala Ali — favored to win his second Oscar soon, for “Green Book” — as the film’s villain. In case you’re waiting to catch it on video, the ad declares, “Some things must be seen on the big screen” and this is the “must-see 3D cinematic event of the year.” Sorry, but this desperate Hail Mary pass of a trailer smells of flop sweat.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   George Gene Gustines
  
 

 Brie Larson is bringing Captain Marvel to the big screen in the latest film from Marvel Studios. Her adventure is set in the 1990s, but the exploits of Captain Marvel date to 1939, when Billy Batson followed a stranger into a subway and was granted powers by a wizard to transform himself into the mighty hero. Since then, many men and women have borne the name
 
  Captain Marvel
 
 , as well as a sexually fluid alien. Here is a colorful selection.


 In 1939,
 
  Billy Batson
 
 , an orphaned newspaper boy, turned into the Fawcett Comics hero Captain Marvel with one magic word — Shazam! No villains could stop him, but a later lawsuit nearly did. National Comics (the forerunner of DC Comics) thought Captain Marvel, who was strong and could fly and sometimes outsold “Superman,” was too close to the Man of Steel and cried copyright infringement. Fawcett retired the character in 1953, but nearly 20 years later, DC licensed him for new comics. Still, the series could not be called Captain Marvel, because Marvel had grabbed the trademark for its own hero in 1966. These days, Batson goes by Shazam (he cannot say his own name lest he transform) and will get
 
  his own film
 
 , starring Zachary Levi, next month.


 
  [Meet
 
 
  
   the cats who played Goose
  
 
 
  in “Captain Marvel.” | Can the movie solve
 
 
  
   Marvel Studios’ woman problem
  
 
 
  ]
 

 Bursting on to the scene in 1966,
 
  Mar-Vell
 
 started out as a spy for the alien Kree race before siding with Earth. This version of the hero was originally a silver-haired hunk, but editors feared his hair color made him look old. He was given a spiffy new costume and later a dye job, leaving him with his better known golden tresses. Sadly, he lost his battle with cancer in 1982. More shockingly, Mar-Vell has remained dead, despite comics’ love of resurrections. His genetically engineered son, Genis-Vell, burst onto the scene as Legacy but later took the name Captain Marvel, bearing it until he was killed in 2006. Spoiler: Mar-Vell has an unexpected role in the new film.


 In 1967,
 
  Carol Danvers
 
 was introduced as an Air Force officer who encountered the alien Captain Marvel. In 1976, Danvers became Ms. Marvel, whose costume was a variation of Mar-Vell’s, albeit more revealing. She later lost her memories and powers, and alien experiments transformed her to Binary, who gets in a spectacular revenge punch against the woman behind her earlier woes. Danvers then became Warbird, joined the Avengers and struggled with alcoholism, before finally taking on the mantle of Captain Marvel (with an appropriate military-inspired uniform).

 Introduced in 1982,
 
  Monica Rambeau
 
 worked for the New Orleans harbor patrol. An encounter with cosmic energy infused her with the ability to convert her body into any form of energy. She joined the Avengers to better understand her abilities and excelled, eventually mastering her powers and becoming chairwoman of the team for a time. Rambeau was Captain Marvel for 14 years. She ceded the name to Mar-Vell’s son and became Photon (and, later, Pulsar and Spectrum). The “Captain Marvel” film includes a character named Maria Rambeau (played by Lashana Lynch), an Air Force pilot whose call sign is Photon and who has a young daughter named Monica.


 This alien hero crash-landed on Earth in 2000 and quickly found himself at odds with Doctor Midas, who was obsessed with the energy that gave the Fantastic Four their powers, and Hexus, a corporation that became sentient (and evil). Noh-Varr joined the Avengers as Captain Marvel and later became known as the Protector. As a space-faring Kree, the triple-jointed
 
  Nor-Varr
 
 has a fluid view of sexuality. “We consider these things carefully,” he once told his Young Avengers teammates. “I was aboard an exploratory vessel, after all. Exploratory does have multiple meanings. The Kree are efficient like that.”


 When her series began in 2014,
 
  Kamala Khan
 
 was a Muslim teenager living in Jersey City and a big fan of the Carol Danvers version of Captain Marvel. When Khan’s powers activated, she became the local hero Ms. Marvel, telling her idol in a feverish dream: “I want to be you. Except I would wear the classic, politically incorrect costume and kick butt in giant wedge heels.” Since then, Khan has expanded her reach globally with the Champions, a squad of teenage superheroes, and seems likely to be promoted to Captain one day. In the meantime, maybe fans will get a big-screen cameo? At a news conference last month, Brie Larson was asked which hero she would like to meet in a sequel. “My dream would be that Ms. Marvel gets to come into play,”
 
  she said.
 

 An earlier version of this article misstated the date that the character Monica Rambeau was introduced into the Marvel comics universe. It was 1982, not 1987.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 If movie studios needed another reminder that audiences are craving for new kinds of superpowered heroes, they got it this weekend.


 Disney’s “Captain Marvel” rode a wave of enthusiasm for more diverse superheroes, a hunger for blockbusters at a quiet time of year and a large helping of ’90s nostalgia to sell $153 million in tickets in U.S. theaters over the weekend.


 It was easily the best stateside debut weekend of any movie this year as it breezily outperformed expectations and brought the domestic box office a much-needed boost.


 The Brie Larson-led movie’s opening weekend was the seventh best of any in the 21-film Marvel Cinematic Universe franchise, behind the $174.1 million brought in by “Iron Man 3” and just ahead of “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2,” which made $146.5 million during its first weekend. (Topping that list: “Avengers: Infinity War,” which took in $257.7 million when it debuted.)

 “Captain Marvel” is the
 
  first film in the franchise dedicated to the story of a female superhero
 
 . DC-Warner Bros. and their Gal Gadot-led
 
  “Wonder Woman”
 
 
  broke a comic book glass ceiling
 
 in 2017, but “Captain Marvel” had an even stronger opening, bringing in over $50 million more than “Wonder Woman,”
 
  which sold around $100.5 million in tickets
 
 during its opening weekend. While DC-Warner Bros. hired a single woman — Patty Jenkins — to direct “Wonder Woman,” Disney-Marvel’s movie split directing duties between Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck, who wrote the script with Geneva Robertson-Dworet.


 An origin story whose soundtrack trades in the likes of Salt-N-Pepa and Nirvana, “Captain Marvel” is set principally in 1990s California, where Larson’s hero crash-lands and eventually teams up with Nicholas Fury, a government agent familiar to Marvel fans and here played by a younger-looking, digitally rejuvenated Samuel L. Jackson. Ben Mendelsohn, Jude Law, Annette Bening and Lashana Lynch play other major roles.


 
  [
 
 
  
   Read our critic’s review of “Captain Marvel.”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 “Captain Marvel” received fairly positive reviews —
 
  it currently holds an 80% “fresh” rating on Rotten Tomatoes
 
 — but its critical reception hasn’t been as strong as some other high-grossing Disney-Marvel entries (by comparison, “The Avengers” holds a
 
  92% “fresh” rating
 
 ; “Captain America: Civil War”
 
  holds 91%
 
 ). Whether the critics’ responses affect the new movie’s staying power remains to be seen, but its strong start is good news for Disney. The studio is also using “Captain Marvel” to drive up interest in “Avengers: Endgame,” the next entry in the Marvel Cinematic Universe that’s slated for release next month. That film will count Brie Larson’s newly-minted character among its ensemble of heroes, alongside Chris Evans’s Captain America, Robert Downey Jr.’s Iron Man, Mark Ruffalo’s Hulk, Chadwick Boseman’s Black Panther and others in what is essentially the popcorn movie equivalent of a musical supergroup.


 Moviegoers who didn’t see “Captain Marvel” this weekend mostly picked between two other films. Universal’s
 
  “How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World,”
 
 now in its third weekend, brought in about $14.7 million. And Lionsgate’s
 
  “A Madea Family Funeral,”
 
 the swan song of
 
  Tyler Perry’s long-running title character
 
 , sold $12.1 million in tickets according to Comscore, which compiles box office data. Other than “Captain Marvel,” there were no first-week movies in the top ten.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 By
 
 
  
   Manohla Dargis
  
 

 Ever since Christopher Nolan took Batman to their mutually productive
 
  dark place
 
 , the DC cinematic super-universe has been as somber as a grave. There have been exceptions, shimmers of light amid the doom. Outside the animated realm, though, the stories and mood have been downbeat, matched by hues that range from drab to black amid bilious green, raging purple and watery blue. Even the “S” on Superman’s chest looks drained of cheer, more like dried blood than some candy-colored delight.


 Given this, the bright, popping red of the superhero costume in “Shazam!” is an early warning sign, as obvious as a matador’s cape, that the dreary and crepuscular have given way to something less self-serious and end-of-the-world grim. It’s a nice change of pace for a big-screen mega-comic, if not a revolutionary shift. There are still a lot of brand shilling and the usual tediously overextended fights, ka-pow and ka-boom. But these are delivered via Shazam, a charmingly breezy avenger in tights once known as Captain Marvel, a.k.a. the World’s Mightiest Mortal, or as I thought of him going in:
 
  Who
 
 ?

 The answer emerges piecemeal in “Shazam!,” another movie about a superhero with dual-identity issues. Here, the divided self begins with Billy (Asher Angel, a relaxed, natural presence), a foundling with pluck, heart and a sob story. He’s on a mission to find his mother (longish story), a journey that — as sometimes happens in male quests — leads him to a surrogate father. This one is an ancient wizard called, ta-da, Wizard (Djimon Hounsou in a comic Halloween-ish get-up), who passes his magic to Billy. Once back in his normal realm, Billy discovers that he can tap great powers by saying the word “shazam,” which turns him into a hero with an adult body (Zachary Levi).

 If this sounds familiar — the Moses-like savior who learns he’s meant for greatness — it’s because the character was conceived to compete with Superman. Yet because Shazam isn’t as well known as Supes et al., he’s not as weighed down with fan expectations, the fate of the world and auteurist aspirations. The filmmakers (Henry Gayden wrote the script, David F. Sandberg directed) adhere to the heroic template, which means there’s a regulation villain (the reliably watchable Mark Strong) with schemes. But they also fill in the faces and places, and add enough shading and color to Billy’s world that when his inevitable fight against evil happens it feels as if something more than the box office is at stake.

 Of course a franchise may be at stake, though considering how often the movie name drops Batman and Superman, it can’t help but feel as if the entire DC movie world is on the line. And maybe Shazam is a risk, just because he’s an unfamiliar avenger in a wildly overcrowded field. Created in 1939, the character was originally called Captain Marvel (and physically modeled on the actor Fred MacMurray). But for legal reasons, Captain Marvel went into storage only to be later resurrected by DC as Shazam. (DC’s longtime foe, Marvel Comics,
 
  managed to trademark
 
 the character’s first name for the avenger currently played by Brie Larson in “Captain Marvel.”)

 The new movie quickly dusts off the Shazam story, first by grounding it in Billy, a sweet, if somewhat melancholic mischief maker who soon becomes an appealing protagonist. The opening scene involving a couple of dimwit cops feels as ancient as a
 
  Bowery Boys movie
 
 , perhaps intentionally. Things soon settle into an easy, everyday groove when Billy moves into a new foster home, a sprawl populated by kids (Jack Dylan Grazer, among them) who are generally cute instead of cutesy. Tenderly overseen by Rosa and Victor (Marta Milans and Cooper Andrews), the house has a lived-in coziness, a warmth and security that feels as unforced as the mix of ethnicities and races.

 Once Billy says that magic word and his supersized alter ego appears, the movie goes to its happy place and comfortably embraces its own identity as a light, jocular, modest entertainment. Levi is best known for his television roles (
 
  “Chuck,”
 
 
  “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel”
 
 ), but he easily scales up for the big screen. He can look like a beefier, tougher
 
  John Krasinski
 
 ; as Shazam, though, Levi is pure cartoon, from his bootblacked helmet of hair to his tumescent musculature. Ken-doll plastic and handsome, he is an ideal, suitably absurd figure on which to hang an old-fashioned hero with a satiny high-collared cape and a fat yellow arrow suggestively pointing down.


 The arrow is a winking joke and as subtle as the nod to the
 
  Tom Hanks body-swapping comedy “Big.”
 
 It’s also a reminder of Billy’s larger human journey, a metamorphosis that remains humorously, identifiably awkward, even as he wills his inner super-adult to heroic life. Angel’s performance lays the groundwork for the character — and keeps him tethered to reality — while Levi lifts Shazam up with an exuberant turn that conveys the delight of Billy’s extreme transformation as well as its lingering adolescent ungainliness and excess. It’s one thing to fight evil, but Shazam’s eye-popping, slack-jawed, discordant physicality is a reminder that it’s just as tough to get a grip on yourself.

 An earlier version of this review misidentified the character that once earned fans like Elvis Presley. It was Captain Marvel Jr., not Captain Marvel.

 When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Shazam!
 
 Rated PG-13 for light superhero violence. Running time: 2 hours 12 minutes.





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Sketchbook


 Can you recognize the albums bearing the names of the Irish playwright’s works?


 By
 
 
  Tim Lemire
 

 
  Answers
 
 :
 
  Endgame:
 
 “Mona Bone Jakon” by Cat Stevens;
 
  Rockaby:
 
 “Elvis Presley” by Elvis Presley;
 
  Dreams of Fair to Middling Women:
 
 “Pieces of Eight” by Styx;
 
  Waiting for Godot:
 
 “In the Wee Small Hours” by Frank Sinatra;
 
  Krapp’s Last Tape:
 
 “Guardians of the Galaxy Original Soundtrack” by Various Artists;
 
  Rough for Radio:
 
 “Radio-Activity” by Kraftwerk;
 
  More Pricks Than Kicks:
 
 “Sticky Fingers” by the Rolling Stones;
 
  Ohio Impromptu:
 
 “Gene Krupa and His Orchestra” by Gene Krupa.


 Tim Lemire is an author and visual artist based in Providence, R.I.


 
  Follow New York Times Books on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   Twitter
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Instagram
  
 
 
  , sign up for
 
 
  
   our newsletter
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   our literary calendar
  
 
 
  . And listen to us on the
 
 
  
   Book Review podcast
  
 
 
  .
 

 An earlier version of this article misstated the title of a Cat Stevens album. It is “Mona Bone Jakon,” not “Mona Bone Jackson.”

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Brooks Barnes
  
 

 LOS ANGELES — Warner Bros. has finally earned back the benefit of the doubt when it comes to its all-important superhero movies: “Shazam!” became the studio’s third nonsequel comic-book hit in a row over the weekend, arriving to
 
  applause from critics
 
 and stout ticket sales of nearly $156 million worldwide.


 “We really want these movies to stand on their own, with filmmakers best suited to the characters,” Toby Emmerich, chairman of the Warner Bros. Pictures Group, said by phone on Sunday morning. “We’re all feeling deservedly really good.”


 “Shazam!” was the No. 1 movie in North America, collecting $53.5 million over the weekend, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data.
 
  Paid previews
 
 in partnership with Fandango in late March, designed to prompt positive chatter online, added $3.33 million. “Shazam!” also had a solid start in countries like Mexico and Russia.


 
  [Read
 
 
  
   our critic’s take on “Shazam!”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 Second place at the domestic box office went to a remake of “Pet Sematary” (Paramount), based on the novel by Stephen King. It took in an estimated $25 million. Disney’s big-budget “Dumbo” trundled along in third place, selling $18.2 million in tickets, for a sad two-week total of $76.3 million.

 “Shazam!” was made by New Line, a division of Warner that focuses on lower-cost films that often serve as counterprogramming. Made for about $100 million — about 40 percent less than most superhero movies — “Shazam!” tells the story of a teenage boy (played by Asher Angel, known for Disney Channel’s “
 
  Andi Mack
 
 ”) who can turn himself into a hero with an adult body (Zachary Levi) and unique powers.

 “New Line always thought that ‘Big’ as a superhero movie was a great idea, a way to make the genre feel fresh and different,” Emmerich said.


 Warner has spent the better part of a decade trying to get its act together with movies based on characters from its DC Comics division — an imperative given the runaway success of rival Marvel Studios and the film industry’s increasing need for spectacles that audiences see as worth a trip to theaters. Part of the problem was that Warner stuck for too long with a dark vision for its superhero universe, set by the filmmaker Zack Snyder, that was
 
  clearly not working
 
 . That led to creative and financial messes like “Suicide Squad” and “Justice League.”


 But the studio, having largely jettisoned Snyder’s plans and shaken up its executive ranks, including
 
  promoting Emmerich
 
 , has started to deliver superhero home runs on a consistent basis: “Wonder Woman” from Patty Jenkins, “Aquaman” from James Wan, and seemingly “Shazam!,” which was directed by a relative newcomer, David F. Sandberg.

 Where the PG-13 “Shazam!” will end up at the box office remains a bit of a question mark given the impending arrival of “Avengers: Endgame.” Ticket buyers gave “Shazam!” an A grade in CinemaScore exit polls, an indication of staying power.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 
  A comedy-drama about a 20-something thrust into a murder mystery begins on the CW. And “Marvel’s Cloak &amp; Dagger” returns to Freeform.
 


 
  IN THE DARK
 
 
  9 p.m. on the CW.
 
 The latest comedy to debut on the CW centers on Murphy, a 20-something with a taste for cigarettes, liquor and sex who is also blind. The first episode introduces Murphy and her roommate, Jess (Brooke Markham), while setting up the pieces for the mystery: the possible murder of Murphy’s teenage friend, Tyson (Thamela Mpumlwana). While out for a walk, Murphy discovers what she believes to be Tyson’s body, but the police doubt her story; for one thing, the body is gone by the time the police arrive. So Murphy must take matters mostly into her own hands. The show was created by Corinne Kingsbury, who also created the sitcom “Fam,” which debuted on CBS this year.

 
  BABY BOY
 
 (2001)
 
  6 p.m. on BET.
 
 After painting complex portraits of South Central Los Angeles in the early ’90s with
 
  “Boyz N the Hood”
 
 and
 
  “Poetic Justice,”
 
 the director John Singleton returned to that area with this coming-of-age drama. Tyrese Gibson stars as Jody, a 20-year-old who lives with his mother, Juanita (A. J. Johnson). He struggles to do good in a society that, the movie shows, gives him little opportunity for growth. Taraji P. Henson plays Yvette, the mother of Jody’s son, who has an imprisoned former lover played by Snoop Dogg. The film “disarms any facile analysis or easy judgment of its characters,” A. O. Scott wrote in
 
  his review for The New York Times
 
 . In the same review, Scott called the movie “a powerful, compassionate and tough-minded critique of contemporary black manhood.”

 
  MARVEL’S CLOAK &amp; DAGGER
 
 
  8 p.m. on Freeform.
 
 It’s been a bit more than three weeks since
 
  “Captain Marvel”
 
 opened at theaters. We’re just over three weeks away from
 
  “Avengers: Endgame.”
 
 Squeezed in between those two releases — and onto smaller screens — is this additional deposit into the ever-growing Marvel vault. The new, second season of the family-friendly “Cloak &amp; Dagger” reintroduces the titular characters from the first season, Cloak (Aubrey Joseph) and Dagger (Olivia Holt), two high-school-age heroes in New Orleans. The first season spent several episodes fleshing out the pair’s back story, showing the radically different lives — and levels of privilege — that shaped their experiences in the city. With those backgrounds already established, the second season promises to dive quickly into action.


 
  LOVE, DEATH &amp; ROBOTS
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Netflix
  
 
 . This new animated anthology series for adults mixes both genres and animation styles. One episode centers on a gang of cyborg thieves. In another, a couple finds a lost civilization in the back of their freezer. One bleaker story in the collection follows the trials of an astronaut stranded miles above Earth. The director Tim Miller (“Deadpool”) created this cartoon potpourri, which also counts David Fincher among its executive producers.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   A.O. Scott
  
 

 One thing we learn in “Captain Marvel” is that it’s pronounced MarVELL, like the English poet — or at least it used to be, on distant planets and right here on Earth, a windy rock also known as C-53. That was back in 1995, when most of this movie takes place and when the world as we know it had not yet been colonized by the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Yes, of course, Marvel Comics had been around for decades, but when the heroine crashes through the roof of the Blockbuster Video store, landing in between the “Family” and “Drama” sections, there are no Avengers or Iron-Man titles on the shelves.


 Instead, she picks up a VHS box of
 
  “The Right Stuff,”
 
 which earns a mild chuckle, since while we know that she’s a space alien named Vers (rhymes with “cheers”), we also have reason to suspect that this young woman is connected with the United States Air Force, and maybe the space program, too, like the guys in that film. Also known as Carol Danvers, and played by Brie Larson, she has some of their bravado, and also — since she’s on the way to intergalactic superheroism — a righteous sense of mission and a burgeoning identity crisis.


 [
 
  
   Captain Marvel has had many, many identities in the comics.
  
 
 ]


 The last and least surprising thing we learn about her is that “Captain Marvel will return in ‘Avengers: Endgame,’” a scrappy little picture that will be released in seven weeks, if you can stand to wait that long. Directed by Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck from a script they wrote with Geneva Robertson-Dworet, “Captain Marvel” is an origin story, which is to say a résumé check for the newest member of popular culture’s biggest, most heavily capitalized corporate team.


 As such, it’s pretty good fun, and could almost be described without sarcasm as a scrappy little picture, like most of Boden and Fleck’s other work. (
 
  Their
 
 résumé includes
 
  “Half Nelson,"
 
 “Sugar” and “It’s Kind of a Funny Story”). It’s not too long, not too self-important, and benefits from the craft and talent of a cast that includes Annette Bening, Jude Law and Ben Mendelsohn.

 And of course Samuel L. Jackson, who plays a young, two-eyed S.H.I.E.L.D. agent named Nicholas Fury. How Fury lost one of those eyes is the big spoiler to avoid here, and the character’s extended presence, after so many agitated cameos over the years, is a big part of the movie’s appeal. To watch the digitally rejuvenated Jackson riding around mid-90s Los Angeles, sort of like he did in “Pulp Fiction,” is to indulge in a bit of Gen-X nostalgia, a mood augmented by period-appropriate musical cues from Salt-N-Pepa, TLC and Nirvana.


 
  [
 
 
  
   Can ‘Captain Marvel’ fix Marvel’s woman problem?
  
 
 
  ]
 


 There are pay phones and pagers, too, and boxy government cars and all kinds of stuff that kids these days just don’t appreciate. Even the science-fiction elements have a mildly retro, “Star Trek: The Next Generation” feel. And the overall vibe, for all the fireballs and fisticuffs, is decidedly friendly. In addition to the Vers/Fury buddy-movie pairing, there is a best friend for Carol (a fellow pilot named Maria Rambeau, played by Lashana Lynch) and a succession of frenemies. Best of all, there is an orange cat.
 
  I will never hate a movie with an orange cat.
 


 The plot of “Captain Marvel,” for some reason, is another secret I’m supposed to keep. Which is fine. In spite of what some unhinged fans on social media might say, I was not paid by Disney to explain anything. Boden and Fleck were, and they do a perfectly adequate job. There’s a big war going on between the Kree — Vers’s people, at least as far as she knows — and the Skrull, green-skinned, pointy-eared beings who have the unnerving skill of turning into doppelgängers of anyone they see. Annette Bening is involved. We first see her as a manifestation of Supreme Intelligence, which seems accurate enough. I’ll say no more.

 The twists in the story reveal a slyly anti-imperialist politics, which is both in keeping with the pluralist ethic of the Avengers cycle and just a bit subversive of the Disney-Marvel agenda of universal domination. The most sympathetic group of characters wants nothing more than to go somewhere else, to escape from the annihilating attention of their would-be conquerors. They might represent various oppressed and dispossessed earthly populations. They might also stand in for that portion of the movie audience that feels the cinematic universe shrinking around them.

 Not that anyone can stop the Marvel Cinematic Universe from expanding. By now the contradictions of this gigantic enterprise are obvious enough. It’s inclusive and monopolistic, predatory and empowering. Every episode is unique — every hero is a complex individual with a singular back story — within an overall structure of sameness.


 Filmmakers like Boden and Fleck, Ryan Coogler and Taika Waititi can put their own spin on a given story or hero, but at some point bolts or waves of orange or blue light will come shooting out of someone’s hands and someone else will be thrown backward and bounce off a wall. The protagonist’s costume will become a character in its own right. That protagonist — a tough and charming woman, in this case, determined to fight gender clichés at least to a draw — will be ready for a career of franchise clock-punching, along with the rest of us. You will stay through the very last credits in the hope of collecting every last Easter egg, and you’ll shuffle out of the theater feeling both satisfied and empty.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Captain Marvel
 
 Rated PG-13. The usual comic-book action. Running time: 2 hours 4 minutes.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 (Reuters) - World number one Novak Djokovic took out his frustration on the racket in a scrappy performance but did enough to overcome German Philipp Kohlschreiber in a 6-3 4-6 6-4 win in the second round of the Monte Carlo Masters on Tuesday.


 The Serb, who received a first round bye, clinched the first set with penetrating groundstrokes from the baseline but struggled with his serve in the second and serving at 2-3 down was forced to save two break points.


 On the third break point opportunity for Kohlschreiber, Djokovic inexplicably hit a backhand volley wide to put his opponent 4-2 ahead.


 A furious Djokovic went on to smash his racket three times on the court and was met with a chorus of boos from the spectators.

 Two-times winner Djokovic would go on to drop his serve for the fourth time in the set but regained his composure with an early break in the decider.


 He maintained the advantage to avenge his Indian Wells second-round defeat by Kohlschreiber last month.


 "There were lots of ups and downs. It was not the prettiest of matches," Djokovic, who record his 850th tour-level win, said.


 "He played well, but a win is a win. This was a tough first match of the clay season.


 "I had to figure out how I needed to move, this kind of match can be expected. It was probably good for me to spend so long on the court."


 Argentine Guido Pella knocked out seventh seed Marin Cilic, beating the Croatian 6-3 5-7 6-1.


 The defeat left 2014 U.S. Open winner Cilic with just one victory from five matches since January's Australian Open, where he was knocked out in the fourth round.

 (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Brooks Barnes
  
 
 and
 
  
   John Koblin
  
 

 BURBANK, Calif. — The Walt Disney Company has been talking about plans to start a Netflix-style streaming service for two years. On Thursday came the big reveal.


 D-Day, as some in Hollywood called it.


 In a lavish presentation on the Disney lot, Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, offered long-awaited details about his counterattack on the tech giants that have moved into the entertainment business. The linchpin is Disney Plus, a
 
  new subscription video service
 
 dedicated to movies and shows from Disney, Pixar, the “Star Wars” franchise, National Geographic and Marvel.


 Disney Plus will cost $7 a month and arrive on Nov. 12. (Netflix’s cheapest plan is $9, and its standard plan is $13.) Disney said it intended to roll out the streaming service in Europe and Asia starting next year. It expects subscribers to total 60 million to 90 million by 2024.


 “We are all-in,” Mr. Iger said.


 In its first year, Disney Plus will offer 10 original films and 25 original series, including three “Avengers” spinoffs. Disney announced that all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons” would be available on Day One, along with nearly all the “Star Wars” movies, the entire Pixar library and family-focused movies and shows from its Fox library like “The Sound of Music” and “Malcolm in the Middle.”

 To market Disney Plus, the company vowed to use the full reach of its empire as it has never done before, starting with a “Star Wars” fan convention in Chicago this weekend. Disney will also mobilize its cruise line, global theme parks, retail stores, hotels and television networks, including ESPN and ABC.


 The presentation, inside Soundstage 2, home to the
 
  original “Mickey Mouse Club,”
 
 began with a 14-minute sizzle reel highlighting Disney’s vast library, which now includes Fox movies like “Titanic,” “Avatar” and “Alien.” Mr. Iger called the library “a treasure trove of long-lasting, valuable content” that “no other content or technology company can rival.”


 Mr. Iger added, “It was important to remind you that we’re starting from a position of strength, confidence and unbridled optimism.”


 The moment amounted to a turning point in the streaming wars. For the first time, a traditional media company demonstrated the firepower needed to compete with Silicon Valley in the fast-growing realm of online video.


 Disney’s plans could have failed to impress, along the lines of what happened to Apple last month when it staged a similar event focused on its streaming ambitions. Apple
 
  trotted out celebrities
 
 but offered
 
  few specifics
 
 — nothing on pricing, no launch date, barely any footage.

 Disney has a mixed track record with technology, struggling to find a winning strategy with video games and failing to capitalize on tech-related
 
  acquisitions like Maker
 
 , a YouTube-based video supplier.


 Unlike Apple, Disney unveiled footage from original shows and films that are headed to Disney Plus. One live-action series is called “The Mandalorian.” Set in the “Star Wars” universe and created by Jon Favreau, the show cost an estimated $100 million for 10 episodes, on a par with earlier seasons of HBO’s extravagant “Game of Thrones.”


 Disney also demonstrated the Disney Plus app. The simple user interface, with movie and television tiles arranged against a dark background, will look familiar to any Netflix, Amazon or Hulu user. There will be “recommended for you” rows of suggested shows and movies, as well as the option to “continue watching” programs.


 There will be tiles dedicated to the Disney brands, including Pixar, ‘Star Wars’ and National Geographic. Each time a user hovers over a brand tile, an animated image is set off — fireworks blasting behind the Magic Kingdom for the Disney tile or a comic book flip for Marvel.

 Users can make a personalized avatar using characters from Disney’s intellectual property, including Buzz Lightyear and Moana.


 While the three-and-a-half-hour presentation’s target audience was Wall Street — analysts were invited to attend — the presentation was also aimed at potential Disney Plus subscribers. Disney also discussed its broader streaming business, which includes Hulu, ESPN Plus and Hotstar, which has 300 million monthly active users in India.

 Disney will “likely” bundle its disparate services at a discounted price, according to Kevin Mayer, chairman of the company’s Direct-to-Consumer and International division. Mr. Mayer said that Disney was “actively evaluating” international strategies for Hulu, which currently operates exclusively in the United States. (Unlike Netflix.)


 Will Disney greatly expand Hulu’s budget? Randy Freer, the chief executive of Hulu, said it planned to expand original programs but did not say by how much.


 With Disney’s acquisition of much of 21st Century Fox, it now owns 60 percent of Hulu, giving the service a majority owner for the first time in its history. (The other companies with ownership stakes include Comcast, at 30 percent, and AT&amp;T’s Warner Media.) Hulu now has 25 million subscribers. Disney said it expected Hulu’s subscriber number to reach 40 million to 60 million in five years, and to be profitable by 2023 or 2024.


 Most analysts have sky-high expectations for Disney Plus, which the company styles as Disney+.


 “Our confidence in the resilient success of Disney+ comes from the company’s unmatched brand recognition, extensive premium content and unparalleled ecosystem to market the service,” Alexia Quadrani, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, wrote in a recent report. Bank of Montreal and Cowen and Company both upgraded Disney’s stock ahead of Thursday’s presentation.


 Mr. Iger has spent years laying the groundwork for Disney Plus. In 2015, as Netflix grew at a blistering rate, Disney began experimenting overseas with an app called DisneyLife. Rolled out in Britain, DisneyLife offered old movies and television series, children’s e-books, games and music. Without new movies, or at least exclusive content, interest was limited.


 In 2016 Mr. Iger started talking more openly about needing to develop a streaming business — a risky proposition for a company with vast traditional television holdings. Disney paid $1 billion for a 33 percent stake in BamTech, a
 
  streaming services company
 
 , eventually paying $1.58 billion more for majority control.


 Mr. Iger announced in summer 2017 that Disney would
 
  introduce its own
 
 Netflix-style service and stop selling movie rerun rights to Netflix, forgoing hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. In 2018 came Disney’s $71.3 billion purchase of 21st Century Fox assets, including National Geographic and the Fox movie studio. Mr. Iger positioned the acquisition as supercharging Disney’s move into streaming.

 Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at MoffettNathanson, estimated in a report on Tuesday that Disney Plus could lose as much as $1.8 billion annually through 2023, with programming as one major expense. Add in losses from Hulu and ESPN Plus and Mr. Nathanson expects Disney’s streaming division to lose roughly $3.8 billion this year and next.


 At least nine new movies are in production or advanced development for Disney Plus, with budgets ranging from $20 million to $60 million. Disney is remaking two musicals from its animation library as live-action films: “Lady and the Tramp” (1955) and “The Sword in the Stone” (1963). Other new movies include “Togo,” a period adventure about a sled dog; “Noelle,” starring Anna Kendrick as Santa’s daughter; and an animated “Phineas and Ferb” movie.


 Marvel Studios is working on three Disney Plus shows. One will focus on Loki from the “Avengers” movies, with Tom Hiddleston reprising the role. Another “Avengers” star, Elizabeth Olsen, will reprise her Scarlet Witch character in a second series. A third show will be associated with “Captain America: The Winter Soldier,” with Anthony Mackie returning as the Falcon.


 Also in the works are episodic spinoffs of Disney franchises like “High School Musical” and “Monsters, Inc.” Additionally, Disney is working on 10 unscripted shows, including a Disney-themed cooking competition, “Be Our Chef,” and a series called “Encore!” that reunites the casts of high school musicals long after graduation and asks them to recreate their performance.


 Roughly 500 films from Disney’s library, including new movies like “Captain Marvel,” and 7,500 episodes of old Disney-branded television shows like “Hannah Montana” will anchor Disney Plus.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 WELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand's government did not approve an aid agency's decision to release the name of a New Zealand nurse held captive by the Islamic State group in Syria, the country's foreign minister said Tuesday.


 Foreign Minister Winston Peters said an International Committee of the Red Cross official's claim to have acted with New Zealand's agreement was "balderdash." He said New Zealand opposed any steps that might endanger 62-year-old midwife and nurse Louisa Akavi or impede her location and release.


 "That's a very polite way of describing how one person has, in my view, dropped the ball so to speak," Peters said.


 The ICRC said it believed it had New Zealand's support for its decision to allow the New York Times on Sunday to publish the name and nationality Akavi, who was taken prisoner in northwest Syria in 2013.

 Ever since her capture, successive New Zealand governments and the ICRC maintained an agreement with international media to keep secret the nurse's name and nationality.


 New Zealand feared naming Akavi would make her a high profile captive, more likely to be executed by her captors for propaganda. More recently ISIS has vowed to avenge a March 15 attack that left 50 dead at two mosques in New Zealand and Akavi's nationality could make her a target for retribution.


 ICRC director of operations Dominik Stillhart said he believed the agency had acted with New Zealand's agreement.


 "We would not have made that decision without the support of the New Zealand Government," he said.


 The aid group reasoned that with the collapse of the Islamic State group, naming Akavi would raise the chance of receiving news of her whereabouts and those of the two Syrian drivers kidnapped with her.


 The agency said it had received information that Akavi may have been seen alive as recently as December.

 New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday indicated her disappointment with the ICRC's decision to release the nurse's name and also said the government had not given its blessing to reveal that information.


 Peters said he didn't want to get engaged in a dispute with the ICRC and have the search for Akavi detoured by it.


 He said New Zealand had shared information with the ICRC throughout Akavi's captivity and there had been times when rescue teams had come close to the location at which she was being held.


 "The fact of the matter is we went there looking for someone in the most extremely difficult, changing circumstances and we've never given up hope and we're not giving up hope now," he said.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 BEIJING — China's exports rebounded in March but imports shrank for a fourth straight month and at a sharper pace, painting a mixed picture of the economy as trade talks with the United States reach their endgame.


 Investors are hoping for signs of economic recovery in China to temper worries about slowing global growth, after the IMF this week downgraded its 2019 world outlook for the third time.


 But veteran China watchers had said export gains may be due more to seasonal factors than any sudden turnaround in lacklustre global demand, as shipments were expected to jump after long holidays in February.


 March exports rose 14.2 percent from a year earlier, customs data showed on Friday, the strongest growth in five months. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a 7.3 percent gain after February's 20.8 percent plunge.

 Shipments picked up around 3 percent month-on-month, suggesting some improvement in foreign demand, Julian Evans-Pritchard, senior China economist at Capital Economics, said in a note. But he said exports have yet to fully recover from a sharp slowdown late last year.


 "With global growth set to remain weak in the coming quarters, a strong rebound in exports looks unlikely," he said.


 Adding to the worries, China's imports fell more than expected, suggesting its domestic demand remains weak.


 Imports fell 7.6 percent from a year earlier, worse than analysts' forecasts for a 1.3 percent fall and widening from February's 5.2 percent drop.


 That left the country with a trade surplus of $32.64 billion for the month, according to Reuters calculations based on the official data, much larger than forecasts of $7.05 billion (£5.4 billion).

 In the first quarter, exports rose 1.4 percent from a year earlier, while imports fell 4.8 percent.


 A customs spokesman said he expects mild growth in both exports and imports in the current quarter.


 China also released lending data on Friday that, unlike trade, was unambiguously strong.


 Chinese banks extended 1.69 trillion yuan ($251.59 billion) in net new yuan loans in March, up sharply from February and far more than expected, as policymakers push bankers to keep lending to struggling smaller companies, even at the risk of more bad loans.


 Total bank lending in the first three months of 2019 hit a record quarterly tally of 5.81 trillion yuan, suggesting months of policy loosening by the central bank are starting to bear fruit.


 Strong credit growth is likely to reinforce analysts' views that the economy will stabilise later in the year after a rocky first half.


 TENTATIVE SIGNS OF RECOVERY


 China factory surveys for March had provided some glimmers of hope that demand was improving at home and abroad, suggesting government stimulus measures may be starting to take hold.


 While export orders remained sluggish, there were signs that a long spell of contraction was easing even as trade talks with the United States appeared to be making progress.


 Washington and Beijing have largely agreed on a mechanism to police any trade agreement they reach, including establishing new "enforcement offices," U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Wednesday.

 However, a top White House official said on Monday the U.S. side is "not satisfied yet" about all the issues standing in the way of a deal to end the U.S.-China trade war.


 President Donald Trump said last week that an agreement could be reached in about four weeks.


 But economists warn that even if a deal is reached, and both sides rescind tit-for-tat tariffs, Chinese exporters will still have to contend with weakening demand globally.


 The International Monetary Fund trimmed its 2019 global growth forecast this week to 3.3 percent, while slightly boosting its forecast for China to 6.3 percent, in part because the Sino-U.S. trade war did not escalate as much as expected.


 Chinese exporters will also likely have to scramble to win back lost market share.


 The trade dispute has prompted some U.S. firms to shift purchases of tariff-targeted products like furniture and refrigerators to countries such as Vietnam, South Korea, Taiwan and Mexico, according to a report by S&amp;P Global Market Intelligence's trade data firm Panjiva.


 China's trade surplus with the United States, a major source of frustration for Washington, rose nearly 40 percent in March from February to $20.5 billion and hit $62.66 billion in the first quarter.


 SHRINKING IMPORTS


 On imports, analysts said companies may not be restocking inventories as much as usual due to concerns over the longer-term economic outlook and global trade, though an infrastructure push is likely to see imports of raw materials improve.


 Slackening demand has sent corporate profits into a tailspin, which could curb the fresh investment that Beijing is counting on to fuel an economic revival.

 Policymakers have acknowledged the economy is under pressure as multi-year debt and pollution crackdown have deterred investment, while the trade war is increasingly hurting China's exporters and their domestic supply chains.


 In response, Beijing has announced more spending on roads, railways and ports, along with trillions of yuan of tax cuts to ease pressure on corporate balance sheets and avert a sharper economic slowdown. State-controlled banks are also being urged to keep lending to companies that are struggling.


 Investors are closely watching to see how long it will take those support measures to take hold. But analysts believe China will still need to loosen policy further in coming months to ensure a sustained economic turnaround.


 China's economic growth is expected to cool to around 6.3 percent in the first quarter of the year and may not bottom out until later in the year, according to a Reuters poll. The economy grew 6.6 percent last year, a 28-year low.


 (Reporting by Kevin Yao; Writing by Lusha Zhang and Yawen Chen; Editing by Kim Coghill)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 SAN FRANCISCO — Disney raised the curtain on a hotly anticipated video steaming service that's aiming to topple industry pioneer Netflix, once a valuable ally of the Magic Kingdom.


 The service, called Disney Plus, has been in the works for more than year, but Thursday marked the first time that the longtime entertainment powerhouse has laid out plans for its attack on Netflix and a formidable cast of competitors, including Amazon, HBO Go and Showtime Anytime.


 Disney Plus will roll out in the U.S. on November 12 at a price of $6.99 per month, or $69.99 per year. That's well below the $13 monthly fee Netflix charges for its most popular streaming plan, signaling Disney's determination to woo subscribers as it vies to become a major player in a field that has turned "binge watching" into a common ritual.


 Like Netflix, Disney Plus will be free of ads. Subscribers will be able to download all of the shows and movies on Disney's service to watch offline.

 Netflix will still have a far deeper video programming lineup after spending tens of billions of dollars during the past six years on original shows such as "House of Cards," ''Stranger Things" and "The Crown."


 But Disney Plus will be able to draw upon a library of revered films dating back several decades while it also forges into original programming. Its animated classics, including "Aladdin" and "The Jungle Book" will be available on the service when it launches.


 New shows already on tap include "The Mandalorian," the first live action "Star Wars" series, created by Jon Favreau; a prequel to the "Star Wars" film "Rogue One," starring Diego Luna; a series about the Marvel character Loki, starring Tom Hiddleston; a rebooted "High School Musical" series; and a new documentary series focused on Disney.


 Disney is approaching the streaming industry from a "position of strength, confidence and unbridled optimism," CEO Bob Iger said Thursday. Iger has led the company since 2005 and expects to step down when his contract ends in 2021.


 The service's entire lineup will cover five categories: Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic.

 Although Disney has an enviable track record of producing shows and films that attract huge audiences, its attempt to build its own Netflix is risky. To make the leap, Disney ended a lucrative licensing relationship with Netflix, which had become the video streaming home for its latest films after their theatrical release, as well as many of its TV series and classic movies.


 But now movies that came out in 2019, and going forward, will be streamed only on Disney Plus. That includes "Captain Marvel," which came out earlier this year; "Avengers: Endgame," which debuts in late April; and the upcoming "Toy Story 4," live-action movies "The Lion King" and "Aladdin;" and "Star Wars Episode IX."


 In many ways, it's hard to compare Netflix with Disney because of the widely different types of shows each offers, said eMarketer analyst Paul Verna.


 "The interesting thing is both companies have ended up in the same place, but they've come to it from vastly different backgrounds," he said.


 Disney will also contend with a new streaming service from Apple, which is expected to be released in the fall. Apple has not yet said how much its service will cost or when exactly it will launch.


 Last month, Disney completed its biggest deal yet with its $71 billion acquisition of Fox's entertainment business. The first 30 seasons of "The Simpsons" will now stream exclusively on Disney Plus.


 The Fox takeover helps Disney tighten its control over TV shows and movies from start to finish — from creating the programs to distributing them though television channels, movie theaters, streaming services and other avenues. Disney will also get valuable data on customers and their entertainment-viewing habits, which it can then use to sell advertising.

 The Fox deal also gave Disney a controlling stake in Hulu. Iger has said Hulu will continue to offer general entertainment programming while Disney Plus will be focused on family fare.


 Along with its strong brand, Disney has the advantage of having a clear strategy for each of its streaming services, Verna said, including Disney Plus, Hulu and ESPN Plus. Disney executives hinted the company would "likely" bundle the three at a discounted price, but declined to give more details.


 Terminating its deal with Netflix will cost Disney about $150 million in licensing revenue alone during its current fiscal year ending in September.


 Disney is betting its new service will quickly offset that. By dangling a mix of familiar franchises and beloved animated classics, along with original programming, it figures the new service will be irresistible to families, even if they already subscribe to other services. It expects Disney Plus to be profitable during its 2024 fiscal year.


 The plunge into video streaming is likely to confront Disney with new challenges. One of the biggest dilemmas will center on how long Disney waits after a new film's theatrical release to make it available on its new streaming service.


 Disney said movies would become available on its streaming service only after the traditional theatrical release period and home movie debut, which includes DVDs and purchasing streaming videos. That puts its schedule behind that of some competitors. Netflix films such as the award-winning "Roma" and "The Ballad of Buster Scruggs" have either become available for streaming on the same day or just a few days after their short runs in theaters.


 With nearly 140 million worldwide subscribers, Netflix already has proven its mettle while warding off one competitive threat after another in the 12 years since it pivoted from DVD-by-mail rentals to video streaming.

 Now, Netflix is locking horns with a company that has been steadily expanding upon its Disney franchise during a shopping spree that has seen it snap up other major studios.


 ___


 Anderson reported from New York. AP technology writer Rachel Lerman contributed to this story from San Francisco.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Laura M. Holson
  
 

 At the “Captain Marvel” premiere in Los Angeles last month, Brie Larson
 
  roamed the red carpet
 
 in a sequined Rodarte slip dress, a galaxy of diamonds cradling her ears. A squadron of F-16 fighter jets flew overhead as fans cheered the movie’s star as she climbed steps to a stage where she was interviewed by Lorraine Cink.


 Ms. Cink, a self-described comic book geek and red carpet host, did not ask Ms. Larson about her gown as others did that day. Nor did she discuss
 
  the movie’s internet trolls
 
 or Ms. Larson’s
 
  call for more diversity
 
 in Hollywood. Instead she focused solely on Captain Marvel and her alter ego Carol Danvers, a United States Air Force pilot, played by Ms. Larson.


 “Carol changed my life and this movie hasn’t even come out yet,” Ms. Larson said, as she held back tears.

 Red carpet interviews from the premiere were
 
  streamed live for fans
 
 who could not attend. And the show was as slickly produced as any pre-awards festivities, albeit one that edged toward camp at times. (For starters, Ms. Cink’s co-host
 
  interviewed a cat
 
 , one of
 
  several that played Goose
 
 in the movie.)

 Ms. Cink is an employee of Marvel Studios, which produced Captain Marvel. And if there is any question why the studio would air the red carpet live, consider this: The live stream has been watched more than 485,000 times on YouTube alone.

 Fans today clamor for anything related to their favorite movies and television franchises. As a result, live-streaming from the red carpet is not just for the Oscars anymore. More studios are producing their own red carpet extravaganzas, hiring battalions of brand-friendly hosts to market the studio’s offerings and control social media messaging. And with technology that makes live-steaming easy, new players have joined the fray to take advantage of the summer blockbuster season and its worldwide audience.


 “Movie premieres have become global moments,” said Doug Neil, Universal Pictures executive vice president for digital marketing. “Fans like to feel like they are part of the experience.”

 Mr. Neil would know. Last year the studio held only one premiere in London for “Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again.” With an army of Academy Award winners on the red carpet — including Meryl Streep, Colin Firth, Tom Hanks and Cher — the event would be difficult for Universal to reproduce elsewhere, he said. Premieres are expensive, too, sometimes costing $100,000 or more. So
 
  the festivities in London were live-streamed
 
 on Facebook, where they were viewed more than 451,000 times around the world.

 “The talent bench was so deep,” Mr. Neil said of the celebrities who attended. “And Facebook has our largest community of fans.” With streaming technology, he added, “It’s very easy to flip a switch.”


 The quality, though, can depend on whose hand is on the switch. “When we started doing this, it was iPhones on tripods,” said Alison Hoffman, chief marketing officer for the cable channel Starz. Now, she said, the company teams up with media outlets, like Entertainment Weekly, People and Entertainment Tonight, to host live stream red carpet events. That was the case last June at the premiere of “Power” at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan. The channel
 
  broadcast a live stream
 
 with three video cameras.


 “For the right show, it’s a critical part of the mix,” Ms. Hoffman said.

 That is not always the case, though. Last week, the cast of “Game of Thrones” gathered at Radio City Music Hall for the final red carpet premiere for the beloved HBO show. The spectacle was
 
  broadcast live
 
 by NowThis, a social media content company, which streamed unscripted, raw footage from the “Game of Thrones” press line. An HBO executive said the company was neither involved in nor aware of the live stream, which explains why it had none of the polish of a typical HBO affair.

 Photographers could be heard booing when Sophie Turner, who plays Sansa Stark, invited Joe Jonas, her pop star fiancé, to join her on the red carpet. “How about a kiss?” a man shouted at Lisa Bonet, the wife of Jason Momoa, who delighted as the he-man Khal Drogo in Season 1. Ms. Bonet shook her head no; her husband was visibly annoyed.


 The video itself was sketchy, too. The camera shook and the Wi-Fi was unreliable. Gwendoline Christie looked fetching in a flowing yellow gown until she waved her silken sleeves and the screen disappeared into a haze of pixelated squares. Still, the live stream has been watched more than 188,000 times on YouTube.

 “It’s not always the best quality that gets the most eyeballs,” said Tina Exarhos, the chief content officer of NowThis. “When you are on a red carpet, these are the moments you look for.”


 Despite the video’s raw quality, she added, “We are looking to do more and more of these with studios.”


 The Walt Disney Studios, which oversees Lucasfilm, Marvel Studios, Pixar and its own slate of movies, has the most sophisticated live-streaming operation in Hollywood. Lylle Breier, who oversees premieres and special events for the studio, said there were often multiple hosts — some on stages, others on the red carpet — and several cameras used for interviews.

 The movies that attract the most attention are the “Star Wars” and Marvel franchises. Last April’s red carpet premiere for “Avengers: Infinity War,” for example,
 
  has been watched 7.28 million times
 
 . There, Gwyneth Paltrow plugged her company, Goop. (“She did a Goop detox and she’s fine,” she said of her stressed-out character, Pepper Potts.) Ms. Paltrow also admitted to never having watched an “Avengers” movie.

 As many as 30 people are hired to produce a live-streamed red carpet show for a Disney company premiere. And hosts, like Ms. Cink, have jobs mostly because they are fans. “They do not ask reporter-type questions,” Ms. Breier said.


 Ms. Cink has hosted at least six streaming red carpet premieres and writes all her own questions. She copped to being flustered by only one celebrity: Stan Lee, the force behind Marvel Comics. (Mr. Lee
 
  died in November
 
 , and “Captain Marvel” carries a dedication to him, as well as a montage of his movie cameos in the Marvel logo.)


 Her background in improvisational theater is helpful, she said. Once her earpiece quit working during a live shot, which made it impossible to hear.


 “I looked like a deer in the headlights,” she said. “I screamed my intro. I know I looked, like, cuckoo bananas. And it was completely live. I was kicking off the whole show.”



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - The magic word at the box office this weekend was "Shazam!" Warner Bros.' latest DC superhero adventure easily topped charts in North America, pocketing $53 million when it debuted in 4,217 venues.


 Buoyed by positive reviews, "Shazam!" arrived ahead of expectations, which anticipated a start around $40 million to $45 million. The film, made by Warner Bros.' New Line division, also earned $3 million in advanced screenings, bringing its domestic haul to $56 million. Overseas, "Shazam!" dominated with $102 million from 79 international markets for a global start to $158.6 million.


 While "Shazam!'s" domestic opening weekend is on the lower side for a traditional comic-book movie, it was significantly less expensive to make compared to other films in the genre that are heavy on special effects. That means "Shazam!" doesn't have to reach the same box office heights as other DC Comic entries like "Aquaman" and "Wonder Woman" to turn a profit. Warner Bros. and New Line spent $98 million to produce "Shazam!," proving that studios can crank out a solid superhero installment without breaking the bank. Prior DC films like "Justice League" and "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice," on the other hand, cost upward of $300 million before taking marketing and distribution into count.


 Jeff Goldstein, Warner Bros. president of domestic distribution, said this weekend's "thrilling result" was because "Shazam!" doesn't take itself too seriously. Though it's still in the superhero genre, it feels lighter in tone than the influx of comic-book titles in theaters. "It was about having fun," he said.

 "'Wonder Woman and 'Aquaman' were very dark and dramatic and different," Goldstein added. "It shows we're making a variety of different movies that can all live in the same space." "Shazam!" -- described as "Big" meets "Superman" -- centers on Billy Baston (Asher Angel), a teenager who transforms into a superhero (Zachary Levi) when someone says the magic word. Both critics and fans praised the movie for its lighter take on the genre, compared to the apocalyptic storylines in comic-book adaptations. Moviegoers awarded with an A CinemaScore. Males accounted for 57 percent of opening weekend audiences, while 45 percent of crowds were under the age of 25.


 Though "Shazam!" led the way in North America, Paramount's horror remake "Pet Sematary" also had a strong start, scaring up $25 million when it debuted in 3,585 locations. The supernatural thriller, based on Stephen King's novel, cost $21 million to produce.


 "Pet Sematary" holds an 61 percent on Rotten Tomatoes and a C+ CinemaScore. Starring Jason Clarke, Amy Seimetz, and John Lithgow, the film follows a family who, upon moving to rural Maine, discovers their new home is located near a mysterious burial ground that sets off a chain of horrific events. Audiences were 52 percent male, with 58 percent of ticket buyers over the age of 25.


 "Pet Sematary" came in at the higher end of expectations. Paramount's domestic distribution chief Kyle Davies says moviegoers latched onto the movie because it challenges audiences.


 "Spring suddenly got very competitive. I think this rose above the fray because it's one of Stephen King's most popular books and the filmmakers did a great job delivering the scares," Davies said. "They really paid respect to the original source material, but added some new twists."

 The final newcomer this weekend was "Best of Enemies," starring Taraji P. Henson and Sam Rockwell as a civil rights activist and a KKK leader forced to work together. It pulled in an underwhelming $4.5 million from 1,705 screens. Astute Films fully financed the film, which was distributed by STXfilms. Older moviegoers aren't generally a demographic that rushes out to see a movie on opening weekend, so the studio anticipates that word of mouth about the feel-good drama will grow in the coming weeks, leading to a long life in theaters. Nearly 80 percent of moviegoers were over the age of 25, and 63 percent were female.


 A number of holdovers filled out North American box office charts. In third place, Disney's re-imagining of "Dumbo" earned $18.2 million in its sophomore outing, marking a steep 60 percent drop from its debut. Directed by Tim Burton, the remake of Disney's 1941 classic has surpassed $200 million globally, including $76 million in North America.


 Universal and Jordan Peele's "Us," now in its third weekend of release, amassed another $13 million for a domestic haul of $152 million. The psychological thriller, starring Lupita Nyong'o and Winston Duke, hit $200 million in ticket sales worldwide.


 Rounding out the top five is Disney's "Captain Marvel," adding $12.7 million. Starring Brie Larson, the superhero tentpole has crossed $1 billion in ticket sales, with $373 million of that bounty coming from North American theaters.


 Among specialty releases, Neon's Aretha Franklin documentary "Amazing Grace" made $57,353 from three theaters, averaging $19,118 per location. The non-fiction film, which was 46 years in the making, captures the Queen of Soul as she records her wildly successful album in a Baptist church.


 Elsewhere, Amazon Studio's released "Peterloo," a historical drama about the deadly 1819 massacre in Manchester, in three locations. It pocketed $30,426 for a per-screen-average of $10,142.


 This weekend continued to prove that scares and superheroes are some of the most reliable money-makers at the box office. Overall, ticket sales are still pacing around 16 percent behind last year, according to Comscore. That gap is shrinking as films like "Captain Marvel" and "Us" impress audiences, and Marvel's "Avengers: Endgame," the studio's epic conclusion that is expected to shatter records, could help close that margin even more.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Elizabeth A. Harris
  
 

 In a recording studio in Williamsburg, Brooklyn last month, where wood paneling on the walls and ceiling gave off the faint scent of pine,
 
  Charlie Rosen
 
 stood in front of 17 fellow musicians, smiling. Chiefly known for his work on Broadway, Mr. Rosen bopped along to the music, baton comfortably in hand, while the ensemble played the score of a Nintendo racecar game.


 With a TV on mute providing cues, he and his 8-Bit Big Band were recording the music from Mario Kart 64, blown way out with 36 instruments, including saxophones, trumpets, trombones, 11 violins, three cellos and a harp.


 “You got everything we need for that section?” he asked his engineer. “Great. Let’s move on to Level 3.”


 At 28, Mr. Rosen is an orchestrator, composer and arranger with his hands in many musical cookie jars.

 He is the music supervisor and orchestrator for Broadway’s “Be More Chill,” a show for which he also plays guitar in the pit. He has one big band devoted to video game songs and another devoted to theater music, which will perform
 
  at Feinstein’s/54 Below
 
 on Monday.

 Mr. Rosen also produces commercial soundtracks for the skin care company Olay out of his tiny home office in Harlem, where he stashes 52 instruments in a 9-foot-by-10-foot room that overlooks a quiet side street.


 There’s a melodica, a flugelbone, a zither and a
 
  theremin
 
 , which makes the ooo-oo-ooo sound from old sci-fi movies and is played by waving your hands around in the air. If you count what he calls his “toys” — like harmonicas, tambourines and a kalimba — Mr. Rosen has 70 instruments at home. He can play them all.


 “That’s insane,” he said after counting. “I’m insane.”


 This collection represents more than a nifty party trick. Indeed, while he considers himself primarily a bass player, his facility with so many instruments is part of what makes him such a valuable orchestrator.

 “It’s kind of like cooking,” he added. “The more spices you’re familiar with, the more you can combine them to create new flavors in places you might not expect.” Once a year, he estimates, he’ll be working on piece of music and think, “You know what this needs? A bass melodica.”


 Mr. Rosen exists as a sort of bridge between genres and generations, embracing Broadway standards, pop songs and the music of
 
  Tetris
 
 . And all of it funnels into his work.


 
  Marc Shaiman,
 
 a Tony-winning theater and Oscar-nominated film composer, described Mr. Rosen as a big talent, but without the eccentricities that sometimes come along for the ride. “It’s the kind of talent where I almost want to hate him,” Mr. Shaiman said. “But I can’t.”

 Jennifer Ashley Tepper, a producer on “Be More Chill” and the creative and programming director of Feinstein’s/54 Below, described him as a hub for young Broadway musicians, since, between his bands and the shows for which he hires, he employs so many of them.


 “He’s an unbelievably calm and steadying source,” Ms. Tepper said. “When you find out that a big press person is coming, or that something has fallen apart and we can’t put it back together, he’s the first person to be like, ‘O.K., let’s come up with a plan.’”


 Mr. Rosen, an easy-to-smile bundle of bearded energy, has lived in the same six-bedroom Harlem apartment since he was 22, with a rotating cast of roommates. His girlfriend, Danielle Gimbal, does the copy work for his music and is a frequent presence in his home and at recording sessions.

 Raised in Los Angeles, Mr. Rosen is the son of a classical bassoonist (his mother, who also plays flute, clarinet, piccolo and sax) and an organist (his father, who also plays guitar, banjo and accordion). A full sized Wurlitzer pipe organ, the kind from silent-movie houses, sat in his childhood home.


 
  [What’s new onstage and off:
 
 
  
   Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter
  
 
 
  ]
 


 When he was 3, his parents noticed he could tell if a note played on the piano was white or black — he had perfect pitch. So he started on the piano, with his mother as his first teacher.


 He didn’t set out to work on Broadway. But as a 15-year-old jazz student at a performing arts high school, he auditioned to play in the pit for a regional production of the musical “13” — and off he went.

 He attended Berklee College of Music in Boston for four semesters, on and off between Broadway shows. He gravitated to courses he felt would help him professionally, like music production, arranging and Afro-Caribbean percussion.


 His main gigs now are playing guitar for “Be More Chill” — his instrument, dressed for the occasion, wears a brown hair bow on its headstock — and co-orchestrating the production of
 
  “Moulin Rouge!” scheduled to open on Broadway in July
 
 . (On the first day of performances for “Be More Chill,” he was told by his union’s new leadership that contract
 
  rules
 
 prohibited him, as the show’s orchestrator, from playing in the band, but he was put back in while the contract is being renegotiated.)


 Thanks to Mr. Rosen, “Be More Chill” features a theremin, which does its electronic ooo-oo-ooo thing when a mind-controlling super computer dies. There is also a flugelbone, which he described as his “orchestrating secret weapon”: It’s a horn that can be managed by a trumpet player but can sound sort of like a French horn or a trombone, which allows one musician to produce a variety of timbres for a small orchestra.

 Joe Iconis, who wrote the music and lyrics for “Be More Chill,” said Mr. Rosen’s ability to have so many instruments in his head, but also so many different kinds of music, both old and new, can give his work an air of “magic.”


 “His breadth of knowledge of music of all types is just intimidating,” Mr. Iconis said. “As much as he knows the synth sound that was used on the latest Ariana Grande record, he knows the model of trombone used in orchestration for ‘How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.’”


 Mr. Rosen has lots of plans — he’d like to write music for video games, score a film, be commissioned by a major symphony orchestra to write a piece — but no particular endgame in mind, he said. He just wants to keep going.


 “You don’t get to be Charlie without being insanely ambitious,” said Jason Robert Brown, who was the composer and lyricist for “13” and has worked with Mr. Rosen on several concerts and shows since. “But I think it’s really an ambition to have as much music in his life and in his head and in his mouth as he possibly can. He just loves making music.”





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Sara Aridi
 

 
  “Crazy Rich Asians” makes its television debut on HBO. And BTS bring K-pop to “Saturday Night Live.”
 
 


 
  CRAZY RICH ASIANS
 
 (2018)
 
  8 p.m. on HBO; Stream on
 
 
  
   HBO platforms
  
 
 
  .
 
 This
 
  ultraglamorous romantic comedy
 
 barely needs an introduction. Based on the novel of the same name by Kevin Kwan, the movie made waves last year for being the first Hollywood production with a majority Asian cast since 1993’s
 
  “The Joy Luck Club.”
 
 (In
 
  an interview with The New York Times
 
 , the director Jon M. Chu said he wanted the film to be “the ‘Avengers’ of Asian actors.”) Constance Wu stars as Rachel, a middle-class economics professor at New York University who joins her boyfriend, Nick (Henry Golding), on a trip to Singapore, whereupon she learns that his family is among the richest in the country. The differences between her upbringing and his become hard to ignore — Nick’s judgmental mother (Michelle Yeoh) flat-out tells Rachel she isn’t right for her son — but our heroine refuses to go down without a fight. For those craving more crazy, rich fun,
 
  a sequel
 
 based on Kwan’s second book in the series is already in the works.

 
  CHASING LIFE WITH DR. SANJAY GUPTA
 
 
  9 p.m. on CNN.
 
 In this new documentary series, the journalist and neurosurgeon Sanjay Gupta flies to six countries in search of elixirs, traditions and modern practices that might have the potential to extend our life spans. In the first of two back-to-back episodes, Gupta explores how people in Tokyo manage work-induced stress; in the second, he tries to find a connection between age-old methods in India and his own Western medical training.

 
  SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE
 
 
  11:30 p.m. on NBC.
 
 Emma Stone returns to host for the fourth time, while the musical guest BTS comes to “S.N.L.” for the first. The South Korean boy band will perform songs off their new album, “Map of the Soul: Persona,” and are likely to make a splash: Their third album, 2018’s “Love Yourself: Tear,” was the first K-pop release to debut atop the Billboard album chart. In the
 
  teaser to the episode
 
 , Stone and a few women from the “S.N.L.” cast camp out on stage in BTS shirts eagerly waiting the performance — not unlike the group’s superfans who call themselves the Army.


 
  WHITE MATERIAL
 
 (2010)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Mubi
  
 
 
  ; Rent on
 
 
  
   Google Play
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   iTunes
  
 
 
  or
 
 
  
   YouTube
  
 
 
  .
 
 With Clair Denis’s new sci-fi movie
 
  “High Life”
 
 currently playing on big screens, the streaming service Mubi is revisiting some of the director’s earlier work. This
 
  political drama
 
 centers on a white French family that runs a coffee plantation in an unnamed African country in the throes of a civil war. The most steadfast of the bunch, Maria (Isabelle Huppert), wants to finish harvesting her crops, but her former husband Andre (Christopher Lambert) and his father, the patriarch of the plantation, are desperate to flee before the violence inches closer. As Maria clings to her plot of land with all her might, she is drawn into the violence around her and is forced to confront the color of her skin.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   David D. Kirkpatrick
  
 

 The United Nations-backed government of Libya sought on Saturday to reassure its Western supporters by distancing itself from terrorists and extremists.


 Some fighters with extremist ties or who have been targeted by United Nations sanctions have said this week that they were joining the Libyan government’s fight against an attack by a militia leader.


 The militia leader,
 
  Gen. Khalifa Hifter
 
 , 75, has long portrayed himself as commanding a fight against terrorism as he has tried to establish himself as a new military ruler of Libya. He has promised an end to the mayhem of warring factions and fiefdoms that has followed the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi during the Arab Spring uprising of 2011.


 But his critics say his often indiscriminate attacks have only ended up driving more mainstream opponents into alliances of desperation with militants and extremists.

 That debate has now taken on new urgency because over the last nine days, General Hifter, who loosely controls much of eastern Libya,
 
  has begun a new attempt to take over
 
 the headquarters of the United Nations-backed government in the capital, Tripoli.


 The government said Saturday it “strongly denies the allegations that among our ranks there are fighters who belong to terrorist organizations.”


 Its main defenders have been powerful militias based in the nearby cities of Zintan and Misrata that led the fight to oust Colonel Qaddafi and are not considered extremists. Militias from Misrata had previously played the leading role in defeating the militants of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, after they had established a Libyan base.


 But several fighters with extremist ties or under United Nations sanctions have also said they are joining the battle against General Hifter.


 Among them is the warlord Salah Badi, who has previously allied with Islamist extremists and who is under United Nations sanctions for undermining stability. Also joining the fray is Brigade Defend Benghazi, which largely absorbed an earlier coalition that included a militia under United Nations sanctions as a terrorist organization.

 The militia it included was Ansar al-Shariah, whose fighters played a major role in the attack on a United States diplomatic compound that killed Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens in 2012.


 Ziad Bellam, a brigade leader who also fought against General Hifter in Benghazi, said in an online video last week that he was returning to the battle in Tripoli to avenge a deceased leader of Ansar al-Shariah and other comrades considered extremists.


 Western governments have almost universally condemned General Hifter’s advance on the capital, which upended United Nations efforts to negotiate a solution to the Libyan fighting.


 But the European Union said Thursday that its members “express their concern at the involvement of terrorist and criminal elements in the fighting, including individuals listed by the U.N. Security Council.”


 The New York Times also
 
  reported on Friday
 
 about extremists and others under United Nations sanctions rushing into the fight against General Hifter.


 In an apparent response to that report and the European Union, the government in Tripoli said Saturday that it “was and still is fighting terrorism and hunting down its remnants.”


 The government argued on Saturday that it was General Hifter’s attack that had “opened the road to the reactivation of the terrorist sleeper cells that are waiting for the opportunity.”

 Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting.










 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 Liverpool didn't slip up this time.


 A 2-0 win over Chelsea — sealed by a stunning long-range goal by Mohamed Salah — preserved Liverpool's two-point lead in the Premier League over Manchester City, which beat Crystal Palace 3-1 earlier Sunday.


 The victory also meant the Reds partially avenged a memorable 2-0 loss to Chelsea at Anfield near the end of the 2013-14 season that ultimately cost them the title. That defeat was sparked by a slip by Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard that let in Demba Ba to score the first goal, and Chelsea's visiting fans reminded the home supporters about that moment throughout the game on Sunday.


 "We knew that everything was going to be different today," Liverpool defender Virgil van Dijk said.


 Liverpool's goals came in a 142-second spell at the start of the second half. Sadio Mane's header put the home team ahead in the 51st, before Salah cut in from the right and arrowed in a 25-yard (meter) shot into the far corner.


 City, which has a game in hand over Liverpool, had put the pressure on with a dominant display at Selhurst Park against a team that has caused the champions problems in recent meetings.

 Raheem Sterling recovered from a glaring early miss to score twice and put City 2-0 ahead, Luka Milivojevic responded for Palace in the 81st, before Gabriel Jesus sealed a ninth straight league win for City with a 90th-minute goal.


 City has the harder run-in, with games still to come against Tottenham and Manchester United, but will retain the title with five straight victories to close the season.


 "The Premier League position is in our hands," City manager Pep Guardiola said, "and we want to win all the games."


 Liverpool's remaining matches are against Cardiff, Huddersfield, Newcastle and Wolverhampton Wanderers.


 "We expect them to win all their games so we just need to get as many points as possible," Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp said, "and if we're champions then great, but if not, it is still a really good football team."

 THE YOGA MAN


 Salah won the FIFA Puskas Award for the goal of the 2017-18 season, courtesy of his solo strike in the Merseyside derby at Anfield.


 He might end up keeping the title.


 With one of the great goals seen at Anfield, Salah received Van Dijk's long ball from the back, cut inside off the right wing, and sent a diagonal shot into the top corner from 25 yards (meters). He celebrated in front of The Kop by standing on one foot in a yoga pose.


 "I'm a yoga man," Salah said with a smile.


 Klopp described the goal as "world class" because of "the control, the first touch, going inside, the movement to give him a little bit of space, and then I was 100% convinced ... a fantastic goal."


 Chelsea had its chances at 2-0 down, with Eden Hazard hitting the post and then mis-hitting a shot from close range straight at goalkeeper Alisson Becker.


 Maurizio Sarri's team stayed in fourth place in a tight race for a top-four finish and Champions League qualification, but could get overtaken if Arsenal beats Watford on Monday.


 PRAISING DE BRUYNE


 City has remained in title contention despite its best player last season — Kevin De Bruyne — missing much of the last eight months because of three separate injuries.


 The Belgium midfielder is back to full fitness and one pass against Palace highlighted the impact he can have on City for the run-in.

 His perfectly weighted through-ball sent in Sterling for the opening goal in the 15th minute, and drew praise from Guardiola.


 "He has the ability and vision to see passes that other human beings are not able to watch," Guardiola said.


 De Bruyne finished the game with two assists after setting up Jesus for the third goal after a surging forward run on a counterattack. They were his first assists of his injury-plagued season, after making 16 in the 2017-18 campaign.


 The game came in the middle of a two-legged Champions League quarterfinal against Tottenham, which won the first match 1-0. City plays Tottenham next in the league, too, on Saturday.


 ___


 ___

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 NEW DELHI — Young Indians could play a crucial role in the ongoing general election in the world's largest democracy.


 With nearly two-thirds of India's population below 35, and more than 15 million first-time voters aged 18 and 19, young men and women have the power to swing the national vote in any direction.


 Ambitious, aspirational and impatient for change, young voters — at least in India's capital — are less focused on issues such as caste and religion than older generations, according to interviews with The Associated Press.


 They are interested, instead, on landing jobs after college, living in cleaner cities with breathable air, increasing women's safety and competing with the world's biggest economies.

 Current Prime Minister Narendra Modi seems to be the favorite, riding a wave of Hindu nationalism that peaked after India's air force attacked an alleged militant base in Pakistan to avenge a suicide attack that killed more than 40 soldiers in disputed Kashmir.


 His main opponent, Congress party's Rahul Gandhi, hopes to revive the glory of India's grand old party that ruled the country for more than 50 years, since independence from British colonial rule in 1947.


 Here are some of the views of young voters in New Delhi:


 ___


 Mayank Thakur, 18, engineering student


 "Unemployment is very high in India currently. India has a lot of engineers who haven't been able to develop their skills because there aren't enough jobs for them in India."


 "Narendra Modi has provided a lot of facilities for the poor people of this country. In my home state of Uttar Pradesh, villages that were rarely lit now have electricity. Where food used to be cooked on firewood, he has given gas cylinders."


 "India is now a very secure nation in the last five years. When Pakistan attacked us, Narendra Modi gave them a jaw-breaking reply."

 ___


 Vardha Kharbanda, 20, psychology student


 "I am looking out for an issue that no government is actually talking about, that is pollution. I have been in Delhi for my entire life and my lungs are gone without ever smoking. So I might just die of lung cancer without touching a cigarette even once. Nobody is talking about pollution."


 "No left and no right can actually run a secular and democratic nation that is multilingual and multicultural in nature. It cannot be done with a single ideology."


 ___


 Arjun Parcha, 32, hospital supplies assistant


 "Nowadays, whoever comes into power is busy serving their own interests. Who is looking out for us? Nobody. They are only looking at filling their own pockets. What has happened? Every day we hear about fighting. One party blames the other for corruption, the other blames them back for corruption. There is no solution."


 ___


 Jitesh Nagpal, 20, university student


 "For me the biggest issue is job opportunities. Whichever party creates more jobs for the new industries will get my vote because I will have to start looking for jobs very soon."


 "I don't care much about parties, but there is just one clear candidate for victory and that is Narendra Modi. I don't think we have a better option to lead the country."


 "I haven't seen any other strong candidate. I don't trust Rahul Gandhi yet. Maybe my views about him will change in the future, but not right now."


 ___


 Rajanvir Singh Luthra, 23, YouTube vlogger


 "Whichever government comes to power, the first thing they should do is to look after the poor because the rate of poverty is very high in India. No doubt, we now have digital India, we have everything online, but do something for the poor people also."

 "India is still not on top. We don't have basic facilities. If you go to a government hospital, you have to stand in long lines. You can only go in after waiting and filling forms. A lot of our police officers and other officers are corrupt. There is a lot of corruption in India."


 ___


 Monika Dalal, 20, psychology student


 "Women's safety is the major issue for me. People are talking a lot about it and there are slogans like 'Save girl child, educate girl child,' being launched, but I don't think these concepts are applied to the roots with practicality. I have been to the villages and seen how girls are treated. They are not even educated and if they do go to school, they are forced to marry right after completing grade 12."


 "Modi has done a lot definitely to help us establish ourselves globally and even in the U.N. By him visiting different countries we are getting recognition there. And they are coming up with some impressive projects to start in India, which has happened because of Modi. So, I think we have really progressed."


 ___


 Kavita Srivastava, 18, studying banking and financial services


 "The biggest issue in Delhi is girls' safety, which is still not 100%."


 "Girls should feel safe leaving their homes and going out at whatever time of the night."


 "I don't think Rahul Gandhi is the best option. I too am in support of Narendra Modi. I think he has the potential to take India to those heights."


 ___


 Ashutosh Kumar Singh, 24, charity worker


 "The issues that should be important aren't even being discussed. We don't see or hear about them. The issue should be education and increasing the level of education. Employment should be an issue. And they are working toward that, but it is not considered an important issue. Currently, the state of politics is so lowly in India that people are just busy in pointing fingers and avoiding key issues."


 ___


 Mohammad Anjar, 18, engineering student


 "At present only Narendra Modi is fit to run this country because they have done a tremendous amount of work in the last five years. The Modi government is taking the country forward. At least, that is what I hear."

 "Everyone should cast their votes. We all sit at home and say 'This government is not working, that government is not working.' Get out of your homes and vote as it is an invaluable weapon."


 ___


 Associated Press video journalist Shonal Ganguly contributed to this report.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Kabul Dispatch


 By
 
 
  
   David Zucchino
  
 
 and
 
  Fatima Faizi
 

 KABUL, Afghanistan — A brother’s sandals. A flag of Afghanistan. A daughter’s favorite toy.


 These are some of the remnants of lives lost to violence.


 The prosaic belongings, collected in handmade wooden containers, are displayed in the frigid basement of a house in Kabul. They are the possessions of the dead, lovingly preserved by family members of Afghans killed during the past 40 years of conflict.


 An exhibition of these everyday items — from scarves and robes to teacups and poems — seeks to memorialize a tiny fraction of the hundreds of thousands of civilians who have died violently since 1979 in Afghanistan, a country that rarely pauses to remember its victims.


 Each so-called memory box includes a narrative composed by loved ones about the life lost, making each tragedy personal.

 “We want the story written by the victims themselves,” said Hadi Marifat, director of the Afghanistan Center for Memory and Dialogue, where the exhibition, which opened in February, is housed.


 
  [For more stories about the experiences and costs of war,
 
 
  
   sign up for the weekly At War newsletter
  
 
 
  .]
 


 Countless Afghan families have been shattered by violence, but the civilian dead are often forgotten and forsaken by everyone but their closest relatives, even as combatants — warlords, commanders, fighters — are lionized as martyrs in billboards and posters.

 An exhibition label suggested these civilian victims have endured a “double catastrophe” — a violent death, followed by public erasure.


 For victims’ families, the memory boxes are expressions of both grief and healing.


 One of the 36 boxes on display belongs to Kabal Shah, whose brother was killed by a suicide bomber in 2016. The ambulance driver who delivered the body to Mr. Shah asked for the new sneakers the dead man wore that day. In his grief, Mr. Shah obliged.

 He regretted that decision when he was first asked to build a memory box. But he had saved his brother’s favorite sandals, and that proved good enough.


 “I wanted to make sure that my brother’s memory is preserved,” Mr. Shah said. “I want people to see what happened to my country — who we have lost and how painful it is.”


 Another box contained a letter smuggled from prison in 1979 inside a hollow toothpaste tube, written in tiny script on cigarette pack paper: “I am still alive.” The prisoner who wrote it, Dawood Sharif, was executed a month later.


 A pink toy dressing table cherished by an 8-year-old girl, Saima, was inside another box. She was killed by a suicide bomber in Kabul in 2015. Her father, Mohammad Musa, wrote of his efforts to locate her remains.

 A nearby box featured a shirt and belt that belonged to Hikmatullah, 28, and Asadullah, 15, brothers killed in 2016 by a suicide bomber at a social justice rally in Kabul. Their mother, Maryam Shafayee, wrote that she had begged her sons not to attend, but gave them a bag of dried fruit to sustain them.


 She received the bag, unopened, after her sons’ bodies were recovered.


 “I always wish I had been killed with them,” Ms. Shafayee wrote.

 The memory boxes are displayed in glass cases in an unheated, subterranean expanse under harsh lights, subjecting visitors to physical discomfort as they read family members’ heartbreaking accounts. Above the displays are photographs of the dead.


 A written timeline snakes across whitewashed walls — a chronicle of misery that catalogs four distinct eras of violence, from the Soviet invasion in 1979, through the civil wars that followed, to the grinding coalition war against the Taliban, now in its 18th year.


 Embedded in the timeline are the names of 8,450 people who lost their lives to suicide bombers, assassins, weapons of war and unknown gunmen. That figure is a small fraction of the total victims of violence spanning 40 years.


 Over the past decade alone, 32,000
 
  Afghan civilians have died
 
 , according to the United Nations.


 The nameless victims of mass killings are also commemorated at the exhibition. A map of Afghanistan shaped from dried mud and clay is dotted with tiny pins representing 19 confirmed mass graves — red flags for those from the communist era and black for the mujahedeen and Taliban periods.

 In the exhibition, there is also a tower built from scorched robes, scarves, shoes and backpacks — residue recovered from several bomb attacks that indiscriminately targeted civilians.


 “You can still smell the dried blood,” said Fatima Alavy, who works at the center.


 The center received funding from the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission. Sima Samar, the director of the commission and a medical doctor, has her own story of violence to tell.

 She said her husband, Abdul Ghafoor Sultani, was kidnapped in 1979 by agents of the Soviet-backed government at the time. She never saw him again.


 The couple’s son vowed at age 5 to avenge his father’s death, Dr. Samar said. The boy cut the eyes out of newspaper photographs of government officials he blamed for his father’s kidnapping.


 Her adult son no longer seeks vengeance, Dr. Samar said. But she said she feared the country would never recover as long as Afghans seek conflict and retribution rather than healing and reconciliation.


 “Everyone is so focused on fighting and trying to stay safe that the victims are ignored,” Dr. Samar said. “They deserve respect and acknowledgment for their suffering.”

 Inside the exhibition room, Nilofar Bayat, 26, described the rocket attack that struck her home in 1994, killing her brother, Assad Bayat, 13, and leaving her at age 2 with permanent spinal cord damage.


 Most of her brother’s possessions were damaged, she said, but she recovered his school notebook for her memory box.

 “I want people to see the person I lost — to know who he was,” Ms. Bayat said. “I have never forgotten what happened. I don’t want anyone else to forget, either.”


 A few feet way, Sima Dawlatshahi, 65, spoke of her husband and son, killed 32 years apart. Her husband, Mohammad Yunos, was kidnapped in 1984 and never seen again. Ms. Dawlatshahi said she was pregnant at the time with the couple’s son, Ahmad Sharif.


 In 2016, Ahmad died at 32 in a suicide bombing. His wife was pregnant with the couple’s daughter, Ms. Dawlatshahi said.


 She sobbed as she described selecting possessions for her memory box. Soon those listening to her were weeping, too.


 Through her tears, Ms. Dawlatshahi spoke of the lasting legacy of her husband and son, now enshrined in her memory box, which includes her husband’s favorite books and her son’s birth certificate.


 “If people see this box and know of their goodness, my heart will be at peace,” she said.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   John Koblin
  
 

 BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. — Conan O’Brien fell under the spell of the historian and biographer Robert A. Caro when he was a student at Harvard in the 1980s. The book that made him a fan was “The Path to Power,” the first installment of the multivolume epic “The Years of Lyndon Johnson.”


 Mr. O’Brien devoured the second, third and fourth volumes of the still-growing series, and across his 26 years as a talk-show host, he put in numerous requests to interview the Pulitzer Prize winner. Mr. Caro found time over the years to appear on shows hosted by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert, but he always said no to Mr. O’Brien.


 On Tuesday, there was a happy resolution.


 “I’m anxious,” Mr. O’Brien said as he rode in a black S.U.V. from the Warner Bros. Studio in Burbank, where he tapes his TBS show, to Temple Emanuel in Beverly Hills, where he would interview Mr. Caro. “It’s very unusual to meet somebody whose work you’re so familiar with.”


 In
 
  an interview
 
 with The New York Times last year, Mr. O’Brien said, “The Lyndon Johnson books by Caro, it’s our Harry Potter,” and described in detail his many thwarted attempts to sit down with Mr. Caro. The author finally caved on the occasion of his tour for
 
  “Working,”
 
 his new, relatively slim book on his writing and research methods.

 At 83, Mr. Caro is enjoying a moment of appreciation, and he has made appearances in recent days in Austin, Tex., Philadelphia and New York, his home city. Mr. O’Brien, 55, acknowledged that he had not exactly landed an exclusive.


 “People keep saying, ‘I heard him on this podcast,’” he said. “‘He dropped in at Coachella.’ ‘He opened a mall in Paramus.’”


 The S.U.V. turned onto North La Cienega Boulevard. Mr. O’Brien pointed at a building.


 “That’s where I got started in this business,” he said. “The Coronet Theatre. I took improv classes there with a talented young person named Lisa Kudrow. If you had told me then that 33 years from now I’d be in a car with a writer from The New York Times on my way to interview Robert Caro, I would have said, ‘That sounds about right.’”


 In the rabbi’s study at Temple Emanuel, he didn’t have to wait long for Mr. Caro.


 “They probably told you,” Mr. O’Brien said, “I’m a fan to a disturbing level.”

 “I want to say, if I’ve ever been asked to be on your show, my publisher never told me,” Mr. Caro replied.

 “I like this way better,” Mr. O’Brien said. “I respect you too much to have you on my show.”


 After a handshake that lasted 30 seconds, they sat at a conference table. Then something strange occurred. Mr. Caro effectively started interviewing Mr. O’Brien. What was his thesis at Harvard? After Mr. O’Brien said it was on the works of Flannery O’Connor and William Faulkner, Mr. Caro asked him if he had ever spent time in the South and followed up by asking the host what he thought of the region’s relationship to the larger United States.


 “Wow, I love that you’re asking my opinion on anything,” Mr. O’Brien said.


 The conversation tilted toward President Trump.


 “You don’t know if this is an aberration or not, if Trump is something outside, and he’s going to lose, and we’ll forget,” Mr. Caro said. “Or, is he the first of the mad Roman emperors?”


 They briefly went over Mr. Caro’s appearance on Mr. O’Brien’s new
 
  podcast
 
 , “Conan O’Brien Needs a Friend,” which was scheduled for the next day. “We have a very young audience,” Mr. O’Brien said. “I want them to hear about work ethic.”


 It was almost 7:30. Show time.


 They stepped out of the study and into a standing ovation from the 550 people who had paid $20 for general admission or $38 for a seat and a copy of “Working.” Mr. O’Brien called the event, which had been organized by Writers Bloc, a nonprofit literary series in Los Angeles, the “thrill of a lifetime.” He added, “I also want to thank you, Mr. Caro, for finally writing a book that’ll fit on my night table.”

 Mr. O’Brien gave a shout-out to Mr. Caro’s wife and longtime working partner, the historian
 
  Ina Caro
 
 , who was seated in the front row. He noted the dedication she displayed in agreeing to move with her husband to the Texas Hill Country, where President Johnson was raised, back when Mr. Caro was looking for insights into his subject’s early years.


 Mr. O’Brien added that his wife, Liza Powel O’Brien, who was also in attendance, wouldn’t have gone along with such a thing; but Ms. Caro, he said, was completely on board.


 “Not exactly,” Ms. Caro whispered to the person seated next to her.


 Mr. O’Brien and Mr. Caro dug into Lyndon Johnson’s life. His father. His mistress. His ambition. They also talked at length about Mr. Caro’s writing process. As the discussion went on, Mr. O’Brien found himself far from the talk show format. Mr. Caro spoke the way he writes, answering questions in shapely monologues that lasted five or six minutes.


 An hour in, Mr. O’Brien asked the author how he felt about the Horace Mann School, his high school alma mater in the Bronx, having named a prize after him.

 “No one has ever asked me that,” Mr. Caro said.


 “I’ve been waiting a long time,” Mr. O’Brien replied.

 The host then asked Mr. Caro if he agreed with Ernest Hemingway’s comment that a writer should not “exhaust the fuel tank in one writing session,” so that it’s easier to start again the next day.


 “Yes, and you’re the first person that ever mentioned that,” Mr. Caro said, before noting that he had written his thesis at Princeton on Mr. Hemingway.


 “Why am I in comedy?” Mr. O’Brien said.


 Did Mr. Caro ever take breaks? Sneak away from his desk to an afternoon movie?


 “See the new ‘Avengers,’” Mr. O’Brien suggested. “Ina doesn’t have to know about it.”


 “Never in my entire life,” Mr. Caro replied.


 Mr. O’Brien proposed coming by Mr. Caro’s office one day and taking him to a matinee.


 “If I don’t answer,” Mr. Caro said, “it’s because I’m so deep in the work.”


 After a Q. and A. session and another round of applause, Mr. Caro seemed pleased. “I thought these questions tonight were exceptional,” he said in a side room. “Incisive.”

 To think, the event had almost been scuttled.


 On Tuesday morning, Mr. Caro’s flight from Austin to Los Angeles was canceled. Mr. Caro said he immediately thought of Mr. O’Brien. “That was in my mind,” he said. “I said, ‘He’s never going to believe it, if I said the flight got canceled.’”


 His publishing house, Knopf, had to make a decision: pull out of the interview, or find a way to make it happen. The publisher quickly booked a charter flight — Mr. Caro described it as an eight-seater jet — to Van Nuys Airport.


 “The downside of canceling the event was disappointing Mr. Caro’s legion of admirers,” said Paul Bogaards, a spokesman at Knopf. “Additionally, the prospect of sending Conan into an irrevocable tailspin did not sit well with me. God knows, he’s waited long enough for this to happen.”





 Advertisement
