
 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 Kazuhiko Kato, the Japanese cartoonist known to his fans as Monkey Punch who created Lupin III, a manga series that has found fans worldwide and inspired television and film adaptations, died on April 11. He was 81.


 His office, MP Pictures, said the cause was pneumonia but did not say where he died.


 Created by Mr. Kato in 1967, Lupin III (it has also been rendered different ways, including Lupin the Third and Lupin 3rd) follows the adventures of Arséne Lupin III, a daring thief who travels the world stealing treasures. Mr. Kato conceived the character as a grandson of Arséne Lupin, the gentleman larcenist and master of disguise created by the French novelist Maurice Leblanc.


 Lupin often commits his capers with help from a sharp-eyed gunman, Daisuke Jigen; a master swordsman, Goemon Ishikawa XIII; and a femme fatale, Fujiko Mine. The gang regularly escapes the clutches of Inspector Koichi Zenigata, an Interpol officer obsessed with capturing Lupin.


 “I took my inspiration for the relationship from Tom and Jerry,” Mr. Kato told The Daily Yomiuri in 2007, referring to the American cat and mouse cartoon characters. “The mouse, Lupin, is cleverer than Zenigata, who is left gnashing his teeth after failing to get his man yet again.”

 The comic series, which has been translated into English and other languages, has appeared in installments in magazines and been collected in bound volumes.


 It was first adapted as an animated television show in 1971. Some episodes were directed by
 
  Hayao Miyazaki
 
 and
 
  Isao Takahata
 
 , who went on to international fame as animators and founders of
 
  Studio Ghibli
 
 . Mr. Miyazaki’s feature-length film debut was the Lupin movie “
 
  The Castle of Cagliostro
 
 ” (1979).

 The cartoon has since been adapted many times for television and film, including two
 
  live-action movie
 
 s, the latest in 2014. Mr. Kato directed the 1996 film “
 
  Lupin the 3rd: Dead or Alive
 
 .”

 The animated versions of Lupin differed from Mr. Kato’s original creation, which was more violent and aimed at older readers. He told The Daily Yomiuri in 2011 that he had accepted the changes to his characters for animation because if his manga “hadn’t been made into anime, it wouldn’t have enjoyed such long-term support.”


 “I have to be practical about it,” he continued. “Lupin III is no longer ‘mine’ when it’s being made into anime. Many producers and animators have played with the work. This is all right with me; there are many Lupin IIIs.’ ”


 Mr. Kato, a son of a fisherman, was born in 1937 in the small town of Hamanaka on the island of Hokkaido, in northern Japan. After graduating from high school he moved to Tokyo, where he attended an electronics vocational school and worked part time at a rental bookstore while developing his cartoons.


 His character Lupin first appeared in the magazine Weekly Manga Action in 1967. Mr. Kato said he started using the pseudonym Monkey Punch after an editor compared his characters’ faces to those of monkeys.


 Mr. Kato was an early adopter and proponent of digital animation, and he studied animation in multimedia formats at a technical graduate school in Tokyo in the 2000s. He also taught animation at Otemae University in Nishinomiya, in western Japan.


 Information about survivors was not immediately available.

 The New York Times contributed reporting.


 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Carter Martin Hahn and Mahlon Aaron Hartselle were married March 30 at the Martine Chaisson Gallery in New Orleans. Christine Wennekamp, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated, with Danielle Gard, another friend, taking part in the ceremony.


 Mr. Hahn (right), 34, leads the brand team at Crunchyroll, an anime streaming service based in San Francisco. He graduated from Princeton.


 He is the son of Tracy M. Hahn and Jeffrey A. Hahn of Manhattan Beach, Calif. His father is a senior vice president of Farmers and Merchants Bank in Long Beach, Calif. His mother retired as a sales associate at Williams Sonoma. She previously taught banking at Beverly Hills High School.


 Mr. Hartselle, who is 31 and known as Aaron, is a Los Angeles-based event producer and designer. He graduated from the University of Denver.

 He is the son of Glenda Sisk Hartselle and Mahlon Arthur Hartselle of Denver. His father retired as the owner of an insurance company, bearing his name, in Seminole, Fla. His mother, also retired, was a registered nurse and member of her husband’s insurance team.


 The couple met in June 2010 during Pride Week celebrations in San Francisco.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 The recipe and history behind the surging Instagram food trend.


 By
 
 
  Daniela Galarza
 

 The Japanese soufflé pancake seems to
 
 defy pastry physics:
 
 An airy vanilla batter is cooked in a pan, which leaves it lightly toasted on each side and cloudlike in the center. As wobbly as fresh silken tofu and served in tall stacks, each cake manages to maintain its structure, even after it’s dressed with toppings like matcha custard sauce, chewy boba pearls, fresh berries or cascades of maple syrup and melted butter.


 The pancakes are a fast-growing food trend on Instagram, where nearly 50,000 photos are tagged
 
  #soufflepancake
 
 . In addition to their attractive, springy texture and sweet, colorful toppings, there seems to be a third factor in their social media success: a long line. For the food-obsessed, a line can be like catnip. They want to taste what’s at the end of it, and posting a photo of the experience is proof that they did.


 “People love to line up,” said Karen Li Lo, one of the owners of Motto Tea Cafe in Pasadena, Calif., where soufflé pancakes are on the menu. “They like feeling like they are a part of something more.” Today, lines for pancakes can be found across the United States, and in London, where the wait for an order at the new cafe Fuwa Fuwa has been compared to purgatory.

 Their origin story is the subject of some
 
 speculation.


 “I’ve heard they’re inspired by ‘
 
 Crayon Shin-chan
 
 ,’ the Japanese cartoon,” says Sakura Yagi, the
 
 chief operating officer
 
 of T.I.C.
 
 Restaurant Group
 
 , which owns
 
  the Japanese coffeehouse Hi-Collar
 
 in the East Village. Shin-chan, a manga and anime character known for his precocious nature and mischievous humor, was popular in the 1990s. He’s a small child, but slightly plump “and jiggly,” Ms. Yagi said with a laugh, “like a soufflé pancake.”

 Hi-Collar started serving its pancakes six years ago, and Ms. Yagi likes to say they’re more of “a precursor” to the soufflé pancake. An eggy, highly aerated batter is rested, then cooked in one-inch-high ring molds on an electric griddle, which yields an exceptionally tall and fluffy mini-cake that, when poked with a fork, reacts like a small, round Tempur-Pedic mattress.


 In 2014, two shops in Osaka, Japan —
 
 Shiawase no Pancake
 
 (translated into English as a Happy Pancake) and Gram Cafe — started selling soufflé pancakes. Both cafes eventually opened outposts in Tokyo, and by 2016 their bouncy pancakes were all over Instagram. Today,
 
 Shiawase no Pancake
 
 has 26 locations, and Gram operates nearly 60; its newest location
 
  opened on Friday in San Francisco
 
 .


 Most sweet cakes cooked in pans, whether they’re
 
  South Indian
 
 or
 
  Swedish
 
 , develop a pillowy or puffy texture.
 
 But soufflé pancakes reach greater heights because they’re made from a meringue-based batter. The eggs in the recipe are separated. The yolks are mixed with flour, milk and sometimes a leavening agent like baking powder, while the whites and sugar are beaten into a stiff meringue.

 Folded together and scooped into ring molds on a frying pan (or sometimes right onto a griddle, without the ring), they stand nearly as tall and wide as a softball, and have a marshmallowlike texture because they’re cooked at a low temperature for a relatively long amount of time.

 “Ideally we want them to be at least two inches tall,” said Ms. Lo, who owns Motto Tea Cafe with
 
 Johnny Li
 
 , her
 
 brother
 
 .


 Mr. Li, who used to live in Tokyo and still visits several times a year (“I guess you can say I am obsessed with Japan,” he said), first heard of the pancakes about five years ago, and knew he wanted to bring them to Los Angeles.


 Ms. Lo developed her recipe based on the pancakes she tasted in Tokyo. But when Motto opened in 2018, sh
 
 e said, “a lot of people were confused
 
 .” They didn’t want pancakes in the afternoon, and they certainly didn’t expect to wait a long time for a dish that, at a diner or at home, takes only a few minutes to cook.

 “In Japan, people eat pancakes all day, not just in the morning,” Mr. Li said. “They’re like a snack — not breakfast.” Customers who were unfamiliar with the concept were frustrated when their order took 15 minutes to make.
 
 (That time is necessary for the pancake to cook all the way through.)

 At Taiyaki in Chinatown in Manhattan, customers
 
 have complained
 
 about the wait, which can average over an hour, leading the shop’s owners to limit pancake availability to weekends only. Some commenters on the shop’s Instagram posts beg Taiyaki’s owners to open outposts in their cities, including Austin and Miami, while others tag friends, asking them to be “pancake buddies” and wait in line together.


 And yet,
 
 according to Ms. Lo, the Japanese have moved on: The soufflé pancake is just not that
 
 big in Japan.


 “They’re more into regular pancakes now,” she said.


 Recipe:
 
  
   Japanese Soufflé Pancakes
  
 


 
  Follow
 
 
  
   NYT Food on Twitter
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   NYT Cooking on Instagram
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Pinterest
  
 
 
  .
 
 
  
   Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Alexis Soloski
  
 

 A Shakespeare play is a dangerous place. Swords can kill you. So can poison, grief and bears. Eleven corpses crowd the stage in “Richard III.” “King Lear” does away with 10 characters.


 But at 14 deaths, “Titus Andronicus” — with its beheadings, live burial and disgustful approach to pastry-making — takes the Shakespearean cake.


 T.S. Eliot called “Titus Andronicus” “one of the stupidest and most uninspired plays ever written.” That doesn’t mean it hasn’t inspired others. The image of a mother made to eat her children was hard to shake, and a couple of decades after its 1594 premiere, artists had already begun to appropriate — O.K., fine, cannibalize — its plot for uses comic, tragic and savagely satirical.


 Directors have staged it with almost no gore and with nothing but gore. It has been modernized, musicalized, performed by puppets and adapted to Kabuki. Stephen K. Bannon sent it into space.

 Its blood has spattered everything from
 
  bootleg Dutch tragedies
 
 to
 
  Japanese anime
 
 to
 
  “Game of Thrones.”
 
 “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” gifted us the character Titus Andromedon, played by
 
  Tituss Burgess
 
 . (His rival: Coriolanus Burt.)


 Now comes Taylor Mac’s
 
  “Gary: A Sequel to Titus Andronicus,”
 
 which picks up, figuratively and literally, after the final murders.


 It opens on April 21 at Broadway’s Booth Theater. But before audiences tally whether Mac outdoes Shakespeare on the body count, let’s look back at some of the play’s more memorable appearances in culture, pop and otherwise.


 In the mid 19th century, the African-American actor
 
  Ira Aldridge
 
 and the English playwright C.A. Somerset collaborated on a new version that transformed Aaron, a Moor and the lover of the barbarian queen Tamora, from villain to hero, subverting racial stereotype. Aldridge and Somerset cut out most of the carnage and interpolated at least one scene from a contemporary melodrama that Aldridge had also starred in. Aldridge’s opinion: “I will venture to say that there is not a play on the stage with a more powerful climax.” A Scottish critic praised Aldridge’s performance as Aaron as “remarkable for energy, tempered by dignity and discretion.”

 A
 
  British horror comedy
 
 beloved of theater reviewers and the people who hate them.
 
  “Theater of Blood”
 
 stars Vincent Price as Edward Kendal Sheridan Lionheart, a depraved classical actor, bad in every sense. After faking his death Lionheart revenges himself on his critics, with murders inspired by Shakespeare. After executing six critics and convincing a seventh to kill his wife Othello-style, Lionheart turns to “Titus Andronicus” to snuff the eighth. Meredith Merridew (Robert Morley), who refers to his poodles as babies, is invited onto a cooking show and served a pie. No prizes for guessing the filling. Lionheart suffocates him with the crust.


 Stephen Sondheim’s Tony-winning chiller, written with Hugh Wheeler, doesn’t directly descend from Shakespeare. An adaptation of Christopher Bond’s 1973 play, its key source is a gristly 19th-century penny dreadful, “The String of Pearls: A Romance,” which describes a homicidal barber and the baker Mrs. Lovett, his unsavory accomplice. Still, the revenge plot, with its abductions and threats of rape, echoes “Titus Andronicus” and the use of human mincemeat as the symbol of ultimate inhumanity smacks of homage. As Mrs. Lovett sings, “It’s man devouring man, my dear/And who are we to deny it here.”


 
  Heiner Müller,
 
 the experimental German playwright who specialized in grimly absurdist Shakespeare rewrites, refashioned “Titus Andronicus” as a postmodern, postcolonial debauch. His version lays bare the violence of the original (arguably pretty bare already) while reframing it as a political allegory of how wealthier nations exploit impoverished ones. Drawing on the 1973 Chilean coup and a divided Berlin, Müller explores the failure of culture and human progress to make the world a less brutalized place. As one character says, “Poetry is murder.”

 Before Mr. Bannon became Donald J. Trump’s chief strategist, he fell for another populist leader, albeit one with more military experience: Titus. The play obsessed him and in the early ’90s, he and the screenwriter Julia Jones collaborated on an interplanetary adaptation of “Titus Andronicus.” Here, Titus is the leader of the Andronicii, incorporeal beings who come to earth and take on human form. Shakespeare never included
 
  erotic scenes of ectoplasmic sex
 
 . Mr. Bannon did. Shockingly, studios passed. He and Ms. Jones also rewrote “Coriolanus” as
 
  a rap musical
 
 set during the Los Angeles riots.


 Though Mr. Bannon’s space guignol wouldn’t fly, he is listed as an executive producer on Julie Taymor’s 1999 film version of the tragedy, which reset the play in a Rome both ancient and modern. Anthony Hopkins said that his Titus referenced both King Lear and Hannibal Lecter, another character with outré taste in fine dining. Reviews were generally positive, with a Times critic writing that the movie “makes the
 
  best possible argument
 
 for a cautionary drama that contemplates the absolute worst in us.” But not only Rome loses big in “Titus.” The movie cost $25 million and made back just $2 million at the box office.


 In the 69th episode of “South Park,” a middle schooler, Scott Tenorman, convinces Cartman to buy his pubic hair. When his friends set Cartman straight on how puberty actually works, Cartman asks for his money back. Then he vows revenge. After various plans fail, including one involving guest stars Radiohead, Cartman arranges for the murder of Scott’s parents, lures Scott to a Chile Con Carnival and feeds him a dastardly bowl of chili. “Nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah, I made you eat your parents,” Cartman gloats.


 Founded in 2005, Titus Andronicus, which now styles itself +@, is
 
  a post-punk Brooklyn outfit
 
 led by Patrick Stickles. The name celebrates Shakespeare’s crowd-pleasing appeal and if serving a mother the pastry-encased corpses of her children isn’t punk rock, I mean what even is? The band’s first song on their debut album, 2008’s “The Airing of Grievances,” quotes liberally from Aaron’s Act V speech. Their fourth album, 2015’s “The Lamentable Tragedy,”
 
  a 29-song rock opera
 
 about Mr. Stickles’s manic depression, name-checks the “Titus Andronicus” title page in the 1623 folio, though honestly quarto editions are way more rock ’n’ roll.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  A Word With
 


 By
 
 
  
   Kathryn Shattuck
  
 

 Whenever North Korea makes the news, John Cho is overcome with sadness and by what he calls a sliding-doors effect — an eerie vision of a parallel life had his parents not escaped to the South.


 “I mean, there but for the grace of God go I,” he said.


 The Korean War, which erupted five years after the country was divided in 1945 — the United States supporting the South, and the Soviet Union the North — was rarely discussed in front of the young Cho, who at 6 emigrated with his family to America from Seoul.


 But its shadow still looms, and he leapt at the offer to narrate
 
  “Korea: The Never-Ending War,”
 
 a two-hour chronicle of Korean Peninsula history airing April 29 on PBS (check local listings).


 “My life was very much changed and strangely continues to be shaped by this event,” he said. “It’s the defining experience of modern Koreans.”

 “Korea” is the second part of a weirdly wonky Cho double-bill in the coming days: On April 25, he’ll play a presidential campaign strategist in “The Wunderkind,” an episode of Jordan Peele’s revival of
 
  “The Twilight Zone”
 
 on CBS All Access.


 In 2016, Cho — then best known as the stoner Harold Lee in the
 
  “Harold &amp; Kumar”
 
 comedies and
 
  Hikaru Sulu
 
 in the “Star Trek” franchise — became the unwitting beneficiary of
 
  #StarringJohnCho
 
 , a social movement that imagined Cho standing in for, say, Tom Cruise in “Mission: Impossible” and Daniel Craig in “Spectre” as part of a wider calling for diversity in entertainment, and an Asian-American leading man.


 Hollywood has responded. In 2018, he became the first Asian-American actor to head a mainstream thriller in
 
  “Searching”
 
 — with a performance that A.O. Scott of The Times deemed
 
  Oscar-caliber
 
 .


 More recently, Cho was tagged to helm a motley crew of bounty hunters as Spike Spiegel in
 
  “Cowboy Bebop,”
 
 the coming Netflix live-action spin on the space Western anime in which he’ll flex some martial-arts skills.


 In a phone interview fresh from a training session in Los Angeles, where he lives with his wife, the actress and director Kerri Higuchi, and their two children, Cho, 46, spoke about coming to America and how Hollywood has surprised him.

 Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.


 
  What was it like for you to come to America as a child?
 
 


 Any time I think about the Korean War, I end up thinking about raising children in chaos. The ensuing years were a time of great instability in Korea, and for me it was a great trauma to move countries and not speak the language and be made fun of for the way I looked and talked. No sweat for my parents — it must have seemed like a step up for them. They were coming to the United States, the land of opportunity.


 
  Does anything especially stand out?
 
 


 I remember very vividly, when I was in first grade and very new to the United States, we were told that we would be participating in an activity called show-and-tell. And my father decided this would be a good time to educate these Houstonian children on Korean culture. So he made a little book with a map and pictures, like a little photo album, and sent it off with me. He didn’t realize people brought in their teddy bears, and I was deeply, deeply embarrassed, but what could I do? My teacher was so excited that she saw a teaching opportunity, and I remember the map going down. [Laughs] I guess maybe, if you’re my therapist here, this is full-circle coming to terms with that early childhood trauma, and really I’m doing that show-and-tell all these years later.


 
  You kind of have a political theme going, with a “Twilight Zone” episode that feels ominously prescient.
 


 I was worried about that idea. You know, drawing parallels to this president is tricky and I didn’t want it to come off as a critique. I think it should come off as a thought exercise.
 


 
  Were you perhaps also worried about going to dark places with Jordan after seeing “Us”?
 


 I haven’t seen “Us” yet but “Key &amp; Peele,” I was just like, These guys are geniuses. I don’t want to necessarily compare myself to Jordan Peele. It’s just that “Harold &amp; Kumar” also talked about race in the context of a stoner comedy. And I was like, Oh my god, these guys are doing it so much better than I could have ever imagined. And then he did “Get Out,” talking about race within the framework of a horror movie, and I just thought that was the most difficult Greg Louganis dive I have ever seen in cinema.

 
  Do you think
 
 
  
   #StarringJohnCho
  
 
 
  ultimately bumped up your career?
 


 Sure, although I think it’s less about my career. Whatever that discussion that people were having, I think it’s had a broad impact. And to be honest, I was skeptical. The pace of change has been so glacial. I was just thinking about this today, like when I came to L.A. in the late ’90s it must have been less than 15 years since “Sixteen Candles” and Long Duk Dong. So when I arrived in town, I didn’t have lofty dreams at all. I just wanted to work. And I was always throwing cold water on people’s enthusiasm in the diversity realm. I just didn’t think as it related to Asians that it would get much better.


 
  And has it?
 


 I have been pleasantly surprised at what I could only assume is generational change and people’s attitudes about diversity, and about Asian people in particular. Going back to #StarringJohnCho, it’s hard to measure the impact. But I look around and see so many more actors of Asian descent who are earning a living, and that’s really the goal anyway. I’m sure to some extent #StarringJohnCho is a result of attitudes that were already shifting rather than changing minds on its own. But I’m grateful. I literally never thought I’d see the day.


 
  Your “Cowboy Bebop” announcement pretty much
 
 
  
   broke the internet
  
 
 
  .
 


 It’s really blown my mind to realize that there’s so many fans of it out there because it’s just one of these things that for some reason I had never crossed paths with.


 
  Are you mastering Jeet Kune Do for the role?
 


 I’m trying to get in shape for this — that’s where I was this morning. I want a functional martial arts body. I want my legs to really do those things. I’ve only done this in earnest once before, for “Star Trek,” and I found the discipline of learning a martial art great for the character.


 
  Speaking of “Star Trek,” I.M.D.B. lists a coming sequel, with you returning as Sulu.
 


 I heard rumblings and then it was off, but man, I’d love to do another one. I’m just really proud to be in “Star Trek” because it was the best thing American pop culture has ever made.


 
  Any plans for a fourth “Harold &amp; Kumar” movie?
 


 Me and the guys were talking about the possibility of that just in the abstract, and it’s really like, How do we do that in this administration? What’s our angle? And we don’t know. I think the degree of difficulty is higher because we don’t like taking sides. “Harold &amp; Kumar,” those movies are essentially optimistic, and the mood seems right now to be pessimistic, and I don’t know how to resolve those things.





 Opinion
 
  Keith Chow
 


 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Seth Berkman
 

 Seven years ago, Tacko Fall and Christ Koumadje were discovered by basketball scouts in a similar fashion.


 They were hard to miss.


 On the streets of Dakar, Senegal, the two 7-footers stood out. They were spotted by employees of the Flying Star Academy, a Senegalese training ground for several basketball players who have ended up on college teams in the United States. The employees chased after the teenagers, imploring them to try their enormous hands at the sport.


 
  [Follow our live coverage of the N.C.A.A. tournament here.]
 


 At the time, Koumadje, now a 7-foot-4 senior at Florida State, preferred soccer. Fall, now a 7-foot-6 senior at Central Florida, was more interested in devouring anime and manga series like “Naruto” and “Tokyo Ghoul.” Both were, at first, indifferent to basketball.


 But their potential upside was difficult to ignore. To onlookers, they evoked thoughts of the next Hakeem Olajuwon or Yao Ming.

 Today, their size offers less promise. They toiled to become giant forces in the paint, only to watch as basketball evolved from a game that coveted height into a more freewheeling, 3-point-centric game that deems their skill sets nearly as obsolete as a fax machine: nice to have, but no longer entirely necessary.


 “What’s interesting about both, their advanced analytics, they play off the charts — well over 1 point per possession, and that’s really effective in college basketball,” said Steve Kyler, the editor and publisher of
 
  Basketball Insiders
 
 , which produces weekly N.B.A. mock drafts. “When you dig deeper, in situational-type things they grade really well, but the truth of the matter is the N.B.A. game isn’t played that way anymore. It’s all about stretch 5s, quickness.”


 “I think they may get a look on the fringe based off their size,” Kyler added. “But a guy 7-foot-6 being the first overall pick or top five is pretty rare now.”

 In the college game, where height can still create a tangible advantage, Fall and Koumadje — who are among the tallest players currently in Division I — will be crucial cogs in their teams’ N.C.A.A. tournament performance.

 Beyond that, whether they can find a place and purpose in the N.B.A. — where the only active players who stand 7-foot-3 or taller are Dallas’s Kristaps Porzingis, who has a far more diverse skill set, and Philadelphia’s Boban Marjanovic — remains to be seen.


 “Extending my range is something I definitely want to work on,” said Fall, who helped the Knights earn their first N.C.A.A. tournament berth since 2005 by averaging nearly 11 points and 7 rebounds a game. “I’m not going to go out there and shoot 3s like a lot of bigs do now, but pick my spots.


 “But I feel like no matter how the game has changed, you still need somebody down low to do some damage.”

 Basketball academies in Senegal like Flying Star now
 
  regularly send players abroad
 
 . After playing for a few months at the academy, Fall got a chance to join a high school team in the United States. His mother reluctantly let her son go, hoping he would receive a better education.


 Extremely raw when he arrived at Liberty Christian Preparatory School in Tavares, Fla., Fall almost quit basketball. But he refined his game while playing on a travel team alongside Ben Simmons, now with the Philadelphia 76ers. Fall also trained in Houston with Olajuwon, a Hall of Famer who emphasized the importance of footwork for a center his size.


 Occasionally, Fall watched Simmons at nearby Montverde Academy, where Koumadje landed after coming to the United States. Fall and Koumadje only briefly overlapped in Dakar — Koumadje is originally from Chad — but in high school they talked on the phone or via Facebook. Their discussions rarely veered into basketball. Instead, they commiserated about the difficulties of adjusting to life when you are over 7 feet tall and 4,500 miles from home.

 Koumadje, like Fall, grasps the unlikelihood that he will develop into a free-shooting N.B.A. big man. Before his senior year in high school, he played pickup games at the University of Southern California with Andre Drummond of the Detroit Pistons. It was then, Koumadje said, that he realized he was more effective cemented in the post.


 “The game is evolving and that’s what people want,” said Koumadje, a two-year starter who led the Seminoles in blocked shots this season. “But I play to my strength. That’s what I do.”

 Fall’s turning point came after his sophomore season at Central Florida, when he contemplated entering the 2017 N.B.A. draft. Five teams told him he needed vast improvement adapting to the speed of the pros, particularly in guarding pick-and-rolls.


 Central Florida Coach Johnny Dawkins — a former Duke guard who played with the towering centers Shawn Bradley and Manute Bol in the N.B.A. — was hired before Fall’s sophomore year, and created a three-year plan for him. Increasing mobility and stamina came first, followed by catching the ball down low and learning to work out of double and triple teams. This season, Dawkins has moved Fall farther out on the perimeter defensively.


 Wherever he stands, Fall often forces opposing players to elevate more when they shoot, to get the ball over his arms.

 “Our floaters have to be a little bit higher, and it probably screwed a couple of guys up,” Fran Dunphy, Temple’s coach at the time, said after a game against Central Florida on March 9.

 Teams have tried less inventive strategies to bypass Fall’s 8-foot-4 wingspan. Fall, who is bulkier than Bol or Bradley, said that he had heard opposing coaches tell players to go after his knees.


 Though he is all but assured of breaking the Division I record for career field-goal percentage — he currently shoots
 
  over 74 percent
 
 ; the record is 67.8 — Fall converts only 36 percent of his free throws. Fall — whose hands are 10½ inches long — said that when he shoots free throws it feels as if he is holding a volleyball.


 
  His shooting form
 
 , which involves using only his right hand while flinging his left arm in the air and then slouching, has drawn derisive comments on social media, where he is sometimes treated as a sideshow. After Fall had 13 points and 10 rebounds in a win over Houston that ended the Cougars' 33-game home winning streak, Fall got more attention for a GIF that showed him
 
  holding the ball over an opponent’s head
 
 like an older brother playing keep-away.


 Fall and Koumadje are accustomed to stares in airports and snide remarks from opposing fans. While both harbor N.B.A. dreams — neither appears in most mock drafts — they also envision a life beyond basketball, when their height won’t dictate how others perceive them.


 Koumadje said he would eventually like to work for the United Nations, helping refugees in Chad. Fall wants to become an engineer.


 “Basketball’s opened a lot of doors for me, but there’s more to me than the ball, the hoop,” Fall said. “I definitely don’t want to be defined by that. I definitely don’t want to be seen as an attraction, either.”

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 How has an enclave for emo kids and mall goths
 
 resisted the retail apocalypse? With merch.


 By
 
 
  Paula Mejía
 

 On a recent afternoon, the Hot Topic store at the King of Prussia Mall, outside of Philadelphia, teemed with teenagers, 20-somethings and stroller-pushing parents. The shoppers sifted through racks of “Harry Potter” plush dolls, “Riverdale” sweaters and “Kiki’s Delivery Service” jewelry, seeking the perfect physical manifestation of their — or their child’s — fandom.


 Demitri
 
 Benton, 19, of Reading, Pa., had come to browse the shop’s “Deadpool” offerings
 
  .
 
 “It’s usually the first or maybe second place I come to,” he said. “It has so many things that you probably wouldn’t be able to find in any other store as far as, like, anime, video games, TV shows.”


 Former mall goths, punks and emo kids may remember the store differently. In the ’90s and early aughts,
 
 one did not so much enter as descend into Hot Topic. The suburban shopping center staple was dungeonlike, with hellish gates that led shoppers into a dark commercial corridor.


 Inside, a wall of T-shirts emblazoned with the names of rock bands and irreverent sayings was flanked by piles of studded belts and rubber bracelets. Manic Panic hair dye could be purchased in a wide range of parent-infuriating hues. Often the shopping experience was set to a blaring soundtrack of Nine Inch Nails and My Chemical Romance (whose frontman — fun fact — once
 
  worked at Hot Topic
 
 ).

 The massive T-shirt display is still there, and so is much of the infernal darkness. “Literally I have seen people run to the door, and their parents steer them away and say, ‘They worship Satan, we can’t go in there,’” said Alexis Monkiewicz,
 
 a
 
 key holder at the King of Prussia location.


 But these days, the store known for
 
 inciting parental panic
 
 is also home to a dizzying array of obsessions. There’s merch for die-hard fans of
 
  BTS
 
 ,
 
  Billie Eilish
 
 and Black Sabbath stocked alongside collectibles designed for those who love My Little Pony, Care Bears and the Disney princesses. They’ve even turned the lights up a bit.

 Though Hot Topic
 
 has not publicly disclosed its financials
 
 since the private equity firm Sycamore Partners acquired it in June 2013 for
 
  about $600 million
 
 , the brand’s endurance in the
 
 narrowing market of juniors apparel
 
 suggests that the brighter, broader inventory is selling. (Sycamore Partners declined to comment for this article.)

 The company’s sustained brick-and-mortar presence may also indicate its health amid reports of
 
  record-high mall vacancies
 
 and
 
  closures
 
 . Hot Topic currently operates 676 stores in the United States and Canada, up from 662 locations
 
 in 2014
 
 , in addition to an online store where one can buy goods from hundreds of entertainment franchises.


 In a 2018 report, the youth marketing research firm YPulse found that Gen Z and millennial shoppers deemed Hot Topic the top retail destination for “unique styles,” with Nike coming in second.


 “What Hot Topic has managed to do really amazingly — and quietly — is to pivot their products and their brand perception to cater to the next generation and what they’re most interested in,” said MaryLeigh Bliss, the vice president of content at Ypulse. “They have completely kept up with what young consumers want.”


 Steve Vranes,
 
 the C.E.O. of Hot Topic
 
 since June 2016,
 
 said that he had watched the company’s evolution “from afar” through his work in retail before he joined the company. His
 
 résumé
 
 includes the children’s clothier Gymboree and Urbio, a design company that manufactures vertical gardens.
 


 “I knew it had changed a little bit and had gone from being considered solely as more of a goth brand to really evolving to be a much broader set of products over time,” Mr. Vranes said.
 
 
 “It’s kind of organically continued to change all the time, and I think that’s part of why we’re successful. We continue to question every single year, ‘What do customers want that they’re not getting anywhere else?’”

 What they want, it seems, is merch, and Hot Topic has plenty.
 
 According to a company representative, more than 75 percent of Hot Topic’s products are the result of agreements
 
 with intellectual property owners, including record labels and entertainment studios, to license their official merchandise.


 That means you can buy an Ariana Grande “Sweetener” T-shirt
 
  on the artist’s website
 
 , if you want. Or you can buy it on hottopic.com, where you won’t get a digital album download with your purchase, but you’ll
 
  spend less
 
 money.


 Hot Topic has always been home to affordable fan gear. Orv and LeAnn Madden, who started the store
 
  out of
 
 
  their Southern California garage
 
 in October
 
 1989
 
 , sold “The Nightmare Before Christmas” stockings and “South Park” stickers when those franchises had but nascent fandoms.


 Hot Topic was also among the first youth retailers to offer plus-size options
 
 , which sold so well that the company started a plus-size label, Torrid, in 2001.
 
 Seeing a growth opportunity, Sycamore Partners spun off Torrid into its own company in 2015. (
 
  Such investments
 
 have been key to Sycamore’s success — and caused the ire of some interested parties. Hot Topic Inc. bondholders
 
  sued Sycamore in 2017
 
 for what they described as an “insider scheme” to profit from the company’s “crown jewel.”)


 Hot Topic’s wholesale catering to fans likely began around 2004, said Ed Labay, the vice president of merchandise. That was the year “Napoleon Dynamite” became a cultural phenomenon — Hot Topic’s “Vote for Pedro” T-shirts flew off the shelves — and when, Mr. Labay said, “we really started to see these pop culture moments hit in a much bigger way than I think they ever had before.”

 The company experienced another surge in 2008, when “Twilight” fans were treated with in-store events and merchandise around the first film’s release.


 But even Edward Cullen couldn’t inoculate Hot Topic against the retail apocalypse that has roiled physical stores and shopping centers since the Great Recession. That same year, the company announced a music discovery platform, ShockHound, which never took off and cost the company
 
  at least $3 million
 
 .
 
 In late 2010,
 
  The Los Angeles Times reported
 
 on a financial dip at Hot Topic that led to staff cuts and store closures.


 “Hot Topic was not immune to the broader consumer spending slowdown during the recession,” Mr. Vranes said.


 Ultimately those losses were cause to think bigger, not smaller. In 2012, Hot Topic began a partnership with Her Universe, a women’s wear company for “fangirls,” then acquired it in 2016.


 In 2015, Hot Topic Inc. founded BoxLunch, another chain offering licensed and unlicensed fan merchandise. The brand also established a presence at Comic-Con in San Diego, Los Angeles and New York. For years, Hot Topic has been a sponsor of a “geek couture” fashion show at San Diego’s Comic-Con with Her Universe.

 The company
 
 still relies heavily on in-store sales. In a recent credit analysis, Moody’s projected that Hot Topic would see
 
 “modest” revenue growth in 2019
 
 , in part from the uptick in its e-commerce sector, its reasonable prices (the average cost per item is $12) and the promotional surges surrounding big-ticket movie releases.

 The expansion of Hot Topic’s mandate has helped keep the company afloat in an uncertain retail landscape. It is also evocative of a cultural shift: Now people can be a part of many fan communities, even seemingly divergent ones, and be taken seriously.


 “When we were in our early teens, you had to label yourself as something. You were a punk, or a jock, or you listened to hip-hop. That was your whole identity,” said T.J. Petracca, a founder of the roving party Emo Nite, which licenses some of its merchandise to Hot Topic.


 These days, he said, “if you like Drake, you can also like Panic! at the Disco. There’s not as much separation as there used to be.”


 The specific density of objects and apparel within the stores conveys that, too. Mr. Labay likened Hot Topic’s layout to the inside of “a teen’s mind,” or a constantly updating social media feed.


 Mr. Vranes said that the store “is a reflection of all of the changes from a content perspective, and all of the access that fans have to these different properties and bands and artists and shows.” (His fandom of choice is “Game of Thrones.”)

 The internet, especially Tumblr, has helped bring these worlds together. It has also changed the meaning of community for fans across the pop culture spectrum.


 The ability to connect over the internet, said Susan Kresnicka, who runs the business anthropology firm Kresnicka Research &amp; Insights, changed “what made you feel like an outsider and slightly abnormal in a previous era” into a means of connecting with other obsessed fans.


 “If you can go online and find that there are people all over this world that are fans of this one little idiosyncratic television show that you happen to love with all your heart,
 
 you don’t feel quite so weird
 
 or not mainstream yourself,” Ms. Kresnicka said.


 For teenagers who don’t have the money to attend concerts or Comic-Con, and particularly for those who don’t live in urban areas, Hot Topic’s stores function as critical meeting places.


 “The presence of Hot Topic in malls is related to the presence of convention,” said Louisa Stein, an associate professor of film and media culture at Middlebury College. “There’s a place you can go and kind of have your fan identity acknowledged in physical space and see other fans in that space with you.”


 The company also frequently holds contests where people can submit T-shirt designs for movie and TV merch. The winners’ artworks are sold in stores nationwide.

 The conversations between fans and Hot Topic can be highly specific. In the fall of 2018, the retailer caused a stir by listing a T-shirt on its website as “Destiel”: a portmanteau of two “Supernatural” characters, Dean and Castiel, whose onscreen chemistry is the subject of much fan fiction, as well as contention.


 (The dedication of the “Supernatural” fandom is largely what has
 
  kept the show on the air
 
 for 14 seasons despite poor ratings, and the show’s writers have been known to make cheeky references to fan theories in scripts. “Supernatural” is now set to end after its 15th season.)


 Hot Topic was seen to be taking a side in the dispute by naming the shirt Destiel, and fans feverishly discussed whether the show would pursue a more explicit Destiel story line, said Rachel Aparicio, a media and gender studies scholar at Kresnicka Research &amp; Insights, and a “Supernatural” fan herself.


 “It definitely signaled a shift to me in watching how the company is engaging with fandom, and doing it at a level that is very insider with something like that,” she said.

 To wit: On one “Supernatural” episode, Castiel buys a younger character a plush toy and says,
 
  “I got it at the Hot Topical.”
 
 Hot Topic then began selling shirts that read: “I got it at the Hot Topical.” (Hot Topic has since pulled the Destiel shirt. When asked, Mr. Labay said he “cannot confirm or deny” that he knows anything about it.)


 Some may call it a niche reference. But for fans, that’s the whole point.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Noel Murray
 

 
  Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for April, broken down by release date.
 


 
  ‘Ultraman’
 


 
  Starts streaming: April 1
 


 Along with “Astro Boy” and “Speed Racer,” the 1960s live-action superhero series “Ultraman” was one of the first Japanese TV programs to reach a mainstream audience worldwide. In its homeland, this tale of a gigantic armored alien and his symbiotic human companion has inspired sequels and spinoffs galore, including a current manga series that follows the adventures of the original hero’s son. That comic has been adapted to this new animated TV series, which blends traditional anime techniques with CGI.


 —


 
  ‘American Crime Story: The Assassination of Gianni Versace’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 4
 


 Although it didn’t get anywhere near the buzz or ratings of season one’s “
 
  The People v. O.J. Simpson
 
 ,” the “American Crime Story” second-season deep dive into the lives of Gianni Versace (played by Édgar Ramirez) and his murderer Andrew Cunanan (played by Darren Criss) is in a lot of ways even bolder and more inventive. The first episode begins with the serial killer gunning down the fashion designer, and then hour by hour “The Assassination of Gianni Versace” moves backward in the timeline, investigating how both these men were shaped by their family lives, by their egos and by the underground nature of gay culture in the late 20th century.


 —

 
  ‘Chilling Adventures of Sabrina’ Season 1, Part 2
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 5
 


 The special Christmas episode of “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina” that arrived in mid-December of 2018 offered a brief respite in the ongoing saga of the well-meaning teenage witch, Sabrina Spellman (played by Kiernan Shipka). But as part two of the series’ first season begins, the heroine finds herself back in a mess of her own making. She’s tapped into demonic powers to help her friends, and is now having trouble keeping her darker impulses in check. As with the season’s first half, expect story lines that evoke Harry Potter and “Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” with an eerily beautiful visual style that resembles “Rosemary’s Baby” and Hammer horror films.


 —

 
  ‘You vs. Wild’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 10
 


 Continuing the “choose your own adventure” experiment of last year’s much-talked-about “Black Mirror” special episode “
 
  Bandersnatch
 
 ,” Netflix is now applying branching options to a Bear Grylls survival show. In “You vs. Wild,” the celebrity outdoorsman will once again brave extreme weather to have dangerous wildlife encounters. But in this new series, viewers will have opportunities throughout to choose the ways Grylls goes.


 —


 
  [Want more Australia coverage?
 
 
  
   Sign up for the weekly
  
 
 
  
   
    Australia Letter
   
  
 
 
  
   here
  
 
 
  
   .
  
 
 
  ]
 


 
  ‘Black Summer’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 11
 


 The horror-comedy series “
 
  Z Nation
 
 ” developed a small but fervent fan following over the course of its five seasons, telling strange, sardonic stories about how society might adjust to a zombie apocalypse. The prequel spinoff “Black Summer” circles back to the beginning of the outbreak, following a mother (played by Jaime King) who’s trying to find her way to her daughter, dodging the undead while forging relationships with other survivors who’ve been left behind. The new show is being pitched as a more traditional thriller, replacing wry humor with white-knuckle chases and narrow escapes.


 —

 
  ‘Street Food’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 26
 


 The Netflix series “Chef’s Table” sets a new standard for how TV shows about cooking could look and feel, bringing psychological depth and visual lyricism to the subject of food. Some of the “Chef’s Table” creative team will now take that same approach to the world’s street vendors in “Street Food,” a series focusing on the culture of entire cities and countries — including Singapore and India, in season one — rather than on the habits and obsessions of individual chefs.


 —


 
  ‘She-Ra and the Princesses of Power’ Season 2
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 26
 


 The rebooted version of the clunky ‘80s syndicated cartoon “She-Ra: Princess of Power” was one of 2018’s most pleasant TV surprises: a fusion of the original’s old-fashioned science-fiction/fantasy mythology with the cultural diversity, emotional richness and character-driven storytelling of more modern animated series. Even the name was changed, to reflect a premise that surrounds the title heroine with multiple magical warriors. Having introduced a teeming cast of complicated heroes and villains in season one, the series’ creator Noelle Stevenson and her staff of writers and illustrators will in year two be looking to put them into action in stories with more epic sweep.


 —


 
  Also of Interest
 


 “Roman Empire: Caligula: The Mad Emperor” (April 5), “Tijuana” (April 5), “Huge in France” (April 12), “Special” (April 12), “My First First Love” (April 18), “Samantha!” Season 2 (April 19), “Selection Day: New Episodes” (April 22), “Bonding” (April 24), “Archer” Season 9 (April 26), “The Protector” Season 2 (April 26) and “Yankee” (April 26)


 —


 
  ‘Unicorn Store’
 


 
  Starts streaming: April 5
 


 Brie Larson is having a stellar 2019 so far, first starring in the international box-office smash “Captain Marvel,” and now seeing her 2017 directorial debut “Unicorn Store” finally get distribution via Netflix. Written by Samantha McIntyre, “Unicorn Store” stars Larson as Kit, an aimless, artsy young woman, who’s just about to settle for a dull-but-stable life in a corporate cubicle when she gets an offer from a mysterious stranger (played by Samuel L. Jackson), who says he can sell her a unicorn. The film’s quirkily colorful images are in service of a whimsical story, meant to raise questions about what it means — realistically — to “follow your dream.”


 —

 
  ‘La La Land’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 9
 


 Can a movie that grossed over $400 million worldwide, and that
 
  nearly won the Oscar for Best Picture
 
 , be underrated? Now that the frenzy of the 2016 awards season has abated, it’s time to re-appreciate “La La Land,” the writer-director Damien Chazelle’s heartfelt and ambitious musical, about two aspiring Los Angeles artists — a jazz musician played by Ryan Gosling, and an actress played by Emma Stone — who help each other grow into the people they’re meant to be. Tuneful, stylish and masterfully acted, “La La Land” is a wonderful throwback to the best of classic Hollywood and the French New Wave.


 —

 
  ‘The Big Short’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 7
 


 After directing some of the best-loved comedies of the 21st century — including “Anchorman,” “Talladega Nights” and “Step Brothers” — Adam McKay tried something different with 2015’s “The Big Short,” an adaptation of Michael Lewis’ nonfiction book about the 2008 financial crisis. An all-star cast that includes Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell and an Oscar-nominated Christian Bale help McKay and his fellow screenwriter Charles Randolph tell a complicated story about the people who predicted the market crash, and who made a lot of money thanks to flaws in the system. This is a lively, frequently funny movie, with a point to make about how everyday folks are often lied to and betrayed by politicians and pundits.


 —


 
  ‘The Silence’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 12
 


 It’s hard to avoid comparing the horror film “The Silence” with the recent blockbuster “
 
  A Quiet Place
 
 ,” given that both are about close-knit families surviving on a ravaged Earth, avoiding monsters who hunt their prey by sound. But “The Silence” is actually based on a Tim Lebbon novel, which predates “A Quiet Place.” Stanley Tucci plays the heroic patriarch, while Kiernan Shipka plays his daughter, whose other senses have been heightened since she lost her hearing at 13. The veteran horror cinematographer and director John R. Leonetti directs, from a script by Dick Van Dyke’s grandchildren, Carey and Shane Van Dyke.


 —

 
  ‘The Perfect Date’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 12
 


 Netflix’s high school rom-com machine keeps rolling with “The Perfect Date,” which features a lead performance by
 
  Noah Centineo
 
 , who’s previously appeared in Netflix’s similar “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” and “Sierra Burgess Is a Loser.” Here he plays Brooks Rattigan, a broke student headed to college, who decides to make some extra money for school by renting himself out to young women who’d like to be seen with a smart, handsome lad. As tends to happen in these kinds of movies, Brooks soon finds that separating his business from his emotions proves difficult.


 —


 
  ‘Someone Great’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 19
 


 The “Jane the Virgin” star Gina Rodriguez and the “Atlanta”/“Sorry to Bother You” actor Lakeith Stanfield play a newly broken-up couple in the writer-director Jennifer Kaytin Robinson’s “Someone Great,” a romantic comedy more about the bond between friends than about boy meets girl. When Rodriguez’s pop-culture reporter character Jenny gets a job at a magazine in San Francisco, she and her two best pals — played by DeWanda Wise and Brittany Snow — have one last wild romp together in New York City to help Jenny to get over her heartbreak and to bid her a spectacular farewell.


 —

 
  ‘Persona: Collection’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 5
 


 The Korean pop singer Lee Ji-eun — sometimes professionally known as IU — plays four different characters in “Persona,” a collection of short films by up-and-coming Korean directors. In “Love Set,” “Collector,” “Kiss Burn” and “Walking at Night,” Lee plays the lead in everything from a tennis drama to a surreal romance, in stories that shift from light comedy to something more gripping. This project is a change of pace for the musician, who’s been a staple on television in her home country for years, but has less experience making movies.


 —


 
  Also of Interest
 


 “The Exorcist” (April 1), “Sense and Sensibility” (April 1), “Something’s Gotta Give” (April 1), “Suzzanna: Buried Alive” (April 3), “Our Planet” (April 5), “Who Would You Take to a Deserted Island?” (April 12), “American History X” (April 15), “Bridget Jones’s Diary” (April 17), “Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason” (April 17), “Les Miserables” (April 17), “Savages” (April 17), “The World’s End” (April 17), “A Fortunate Man” (April 19), “Music Teacher” (April 19), “Grass is Greener” (April 20), “Aurora” (April 25) and “The Nice Guys” (April 30)


 —


 
  ‘I Think You Should Leave with Tim Robinson’
 


 
  Starts streaming:
 
 
  April 23
 


 The loud-voiced comic Tim Robinson is probably best-known for cocreating and co-starring in the sweetly eccentric sitcom “Detroiters,” with his friend Sam Richardson. But he also spent a few years as a writer and an occasional bit player on “Saturday Night Live.” Robinson puts that sketch training to use — along with his ability to make a strong, not always positive first impression — in the offbeat cringe-comedy show “I Think You Should Leave.” In a variety of scenarios, Robinson and others play characters so obnoxious and intense that they drive anyone in the immediate vicinity into fleeing.


 —


 
  Also of Interest
 


 “Kevin Hart: Irresponsible” (April 2) and “Anthony Jeselnik: Fire in the Maternity Ward” (April 30)

 
  Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly
  
   Australia Letter
  
  , start your day with your local
  
   Morning Briefing
  
  and join us in our
  
   Facebook group
  
  .
 





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 All of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.


 Dr. Regina Maree Myers and Joshua Alexander Kulick met through a dating app Sept. 24, 2016 — shortly after each had moved to Philadelphia from New York — and went on a first date to a bar later that evening. He said he knew the first date would be different when she crossed the street and walked toward him.


 “I remember the voice in my head telling me that I needed to do everything in my power to ensure that this first date led to a second,” he said.


 Long before the bar and their conversation had shut down for the evening, Mr. Kulick had indeed secured his second date with Ms. Myers. He mentioned that Beyoncé would be performing in Philadelphia the following week, and slyly asked if she would go with him if he had tickets.


 Ms. Myers said yes, and a short while later, when she excused herself to go to the restroom, Mr. Kulick quickly bought tickets for the Beyoncé concert on StubHub. He showed them to Ms. Myers when she returned. “I was like, ‘What!’ Ms. Myers recalled. “I was just incredulous.”

 They began dating almost immediately. Their first few months were filled with a dizzying blitz of concerts, sports events and long walks exploring Philadelphia’s food scene.


 Ms. Myers was not as certain as Mr. Kulick about a future together. But on their third date, he brought along a bouquet of flowers and he told her why: “Because I like you and it’s a nice thing to do.”


 “I was a jaded New Yorker when it came to the dating scene,” she said. “I always seemed to go for the life-of-the-party guys, the loudest guys in the room. Then Joshua comes along and though he’s sort of quiet and a bit introverted, he’s the sweetest, most thoughtful and generous person I had ever met. My family loved him and so did my friends.”


 And so did she, a fact she could no longer ignore.


 
  
   
    Read more.
   
  
 


 Julie Grace Keys and Andrew Patrick Heathfield were married March 30 at the 21c Museum Hotel in Cincinnati. Alice Gailey Keys, the bride’s mother who is a Universal Life minister, officiated.


 The bride, 30, and groom, 31, met on a blind date while attending Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, from which they graduated.


 Ms. Keys is a lawyer in Columbus, Ohio, for Disability Rights Ohio. She received a law degree from Ohio State University. She is a daughter of Mrs. Keys and Dr. Michael A. Keys of Terrace Park, Ohio. The bride’s father is the director of the Geriatric Psychiatry Fellowship program at the University of Cincinnati. Her mother is a lawyer in private practice in Covington, Ky.


 Mr. Heathfield, 31, is an architect in Columbus, Ohio, where he owns and operates Minoh, a multidisciplinary architecture studio. He received a master’s degree in architecture from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Mich. He is the son of Lori Jo Heathfield and Dennis P. Heathfield of Columbus, Ind. The groom’s father is the executive director of inclusion for people with disabilities and veterans for Cummins, a company in Columbus, Ind., that designs, manufactures, and distributes engines, filtration and power generation products. His mother was a stay-at-home parent.


 Alexandra Sarah Armour and Joseph Werner Stein were married March 30 at the Breakers Palm Beach in Palm Beach, Fla. Cory J. Ciklin, chief judge of the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal, officiated.


 Mrs. Stein, 28, is senior manager focused on consumer insights and strategy at Jetblack, a retail tech start-up company in Manhattan that features shopping by text messaging. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.


 She is the daughter of Louise D. Armour and Lester Armour III, of Palm Beach. The bride’s father, a former professional polo player who is a member of the Polo Hall of Fame, now owns a horse and cattle ranch in Aiken, S.C. Her mother serves is a managing director, portfolio manager and a co-head of Tiano, Armour &amp; Smyth Wealth Managers at J.P. Morgan Securities in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.


 Mr. Stein, 29, is a founder of Luxstone Partners, a real estate company that owns and operates mixed-use and multifamily properties in the New York towns of Mount Vernon, Tarrytown and Sleepy Hollow. He graduated summa cum laude from Binghamton University, and is studying for a master’s degree in real estate finance and development at N.Y.U.


 He is a son of Dr. Marjorie Stein and Dr. Mark Stein of Scarsdale, N.Y. The groom’s mother is a radiologist at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She is also a professor of radiology at Montefiore and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, also in the Bronx. His father is a urological surgeon in private practice in Manhattan and the Bronx, with affiliations with NewYork-Presbyterian and Mount Sinai Hospital.


 The couple met through mutual friends in Manhattan in January 2013.


 Ann Marie Dwyer and Thomas Joseph Dunn were married March 30 at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Washington. The Rev. Kevin Gillespie performed the ceremony.


 The bride, 32, is the director of the Civil Society Fellows program at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research in New York. She graduated from Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kan.


 She is a daughter of Pat M. Dwyer and Dick D. Dwyer of Wichita, Kan. The bride’s father retired as the finance director of secondary schools for the Catholic Diocese of Wichita. Her mother, a retired nurse practitioner, formerly taught at Wichita State University’s School of Nursing.


 The groom, 35, is the creative director for On Message, a political consulting firm in Alexandria, Va. He graduated from Shippensburg University.


 He is the son of Stephanie Dunn and Thomas J. Dunn of Lansdale, Pa. The groom’s father is a vice president of Realen Properties, a real estate development firm based in Philadelphia. His mother retired as a dental hygienist in Souderton, Pa.

 The couple met in the summer of 2008 at the groom’s apartment in Arlington, where the bride was visiting a friend who happened to be his roommate.


 Carolyn Hayes Conley and Gregory Robert Lehman were married March 30 at St. Vincent de Paul Church in San Francisco. The Rev. William Nicholas, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.


 Mrs. Lehman, 29, is a solutions architect for Pilot.com, a bookkeeping start-up company based in San Francisco. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Notre Dame.


 She is a daughter of Patrica W. Conley and Christopher Conley of Darien, Conn. The bride’s father works in Darien as a managing director for Lapis Advisors, a private credit platform that invests in the municipal bond market and has headquarters in Larkspur, Calif. Her mother retired as a health care analyst at MBIA, a financial services company in Purchase, N.Y., and was a stay-at-home parent.

 Mr. Lehman, 33, is a finance manager at Lyft in San Francisco. He graduated magna cum laude from Georgetown.


 He is a son of Barbara K. Lehman and Allan M. Lehman of Phoenix. The groom’s mother retired as a kindergarten teacher at Lowell Elementary School in Phoenix. His father is the founder of Lehman Optical, a firm specializing in custom eyewear in Dewey, Ariz.


 The couple met in 2015 through the dating app Hinge.


 Rebecca Lauren Isaacson and Taylor Jordan Lustgarten are to be married March 31 at Temple Emanu-El in Closter, N.J. Rabbi Barry Dov Schwartz, the bride’s maternal uncle, is to officiate.


 The bride, 32, is a senior financial analyst in the financial reporting department of The New York Times in New York. She graduated from Boston University and received an M.B.A. from Baruch College.

 She is a daughter of Lily Katz and Joel S. Isaacson, both of New York. The bride’s father is a founder and the chief executive of a wealth management firm in New York bearing his name. He is the chairman of the board of AHRC New York City Foundation, a supporter of programs around the city for people with intellectual and other developmental disabilities. Until March 29, her mother worked in New York on contract as a corporate secretary in corporate governance at Barclays, the British bank.


 The groom, 28, works in New York as the senior business analyst of the digital team at iHeartMedia, which is based in San Antonio. He graduated from the University of Connecticut in Storrs and received an M.B.A. from Rutgers.


 He is a son of Abbe J. Lustgarten of Marlboro, N.J., and Alvin R. Lustgarten of Hillsdale, N.J., and a stepson of Jodi Lustgarten. The groom’s mother is a special education history and language arts teacher at Monroe Township High School in New Jersey. His father is the vice president for technology at Hearst Television in New York.


 The couple met in 2013 while working at The Times in its News Services department, now called the NYT Licensing Group.


 Mumu Xu and Joseph Evan Borson were married March 30 at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington. Mirosia Martin, a friend of the bride who was designated as a temporary officiant by the Superior Court for the District of Columbia, officiated. Jesse Cohen, a friend of the groom, took part in the ceremony.


 Dr. Xu, 33, is an assistant professor with a joint appointment in the department of aerospace engineering and the Institute for Systems Research at the University of Maryland, College Park. She graduated from Harvard and received a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the California Institute of Technology.


 She is a daughter of Yuhuan Wang and Shizhong Xu of Riverside, Calif. The bride’s father is a professor of botany and plant sciences at the University of California, Riverside. The bride’s mother is a technician in the Stem Cell Center at the University of California, Riverside.


 Mr. Borson, also 33, is a trial lawyer for the civil division of the United States Department of Justice in Washington. He graduated magna cum laude from Brown and received a law degree, magna cum laude, from Harvard.


 He is a son of Dr. Linda S. Borson and Dr. Andrew J. Borson of Broomall, Pa. The groom’s mother is a psychologist and his father is a neuropsychologist. Both have private practices with offices in Broomall and at Taylor Hospital in Ridley Park, Pa.


 The couple met in 2016 through the dating app Coffee Meets Bagel.


 Megan Marie Keane and Alexander Eamon Roithmayr were married March 30 at the Bear Mountain Inn in Tomkins Cove, N.Y. Danielle Aquino-Roithmayr, a Universal Life minister and a cousin of the groom, officiated.


 Ms. Keane-Roithmayr, 29, is a development research associate for fund-raising at the Metropolitan Opera in Manhattan. She graduated from SUNY Geneseo and received a master’s degree in public administration from Baruch College.


 She is a daughter of Catherine Keane and Timothy Keane of Yorktown Heights, N.Y. The bride’s father is a partner in Quirk &amp; Bakalor, a Manhattan law firm. Her mother is a group fitness instructor at Club Fit in Jefferson Valley and Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.


 Mr. Roithmayr, also 29, is the chief of staff for New York State Assemblyman David E. Buchwald, a Democrat who represents District 93 in Westchester County. The groom is also pursuing a master’s degree in public administration at Pace University. He is the vice president of the Westchester Young Democrats. He graduated from Marist College.


 He is the son of Christine Convey Roithmayr and Mark Roithmayr of White Plains. Until 2006, the groom’s mother worked in White Plains as a special assistant to the president at the March of Dimes. She is the president of the Woman’s Club of White Plains Foundation, which supports local nonprofit groups. His father is the chief executive of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation in Manhattan.

 Ms. Keane and Mr. Roithmayr met over the phone in January 2013 while working for freshman New York State Assembly members — she for Nily Rozic, a Democrat representing the 25th district of Queens, and he for Mr. Buchwald in White Plains. Over the next few weeks, they came up with various business-related matters to call each other about, and eventually he asked her out.


 Jennifer Nicole Weissman and Nicholas Edward Jette were married March 30 at the Four Seasons in Washington. Rabbi Shira Stutman officiated.


 Mrs. Jette, 31, is an associate in the real estate and commercial transactions practice groups at Friedlander Misler, a law firm in Washington. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a law degree from Emory University.


 She is the daughter of Jane L. Weissman of Rockville, Md., and Howard O. Weissman of Potomac, Md.


 Mr. Jette, 33, is a vice president of Chesapeake Lodging Trust, a lodging real estate investment trust in Arlington, Va., where he specializes in acquisitions and asset management. He graduated from Cornell.

 He is a son of Suzanne H. Jette and Glenn A. Jette of Old Lyme, Conn.


 The couple met in 2015 at a cocktail bar in Washington.


 Pressley Kay Baird and Tanner Jordan Frevert were married March 30 at the Rickhouse, an events space in Durham, N.C. The Rev. Jeremy Pollard, a Baptist minister, officiated.


 The bride, 29, and groom, 27, met at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, from which the bride graduated and each received a master’s degree in mass communication.


 Mrs. Frevert is a communications associate at College Advising Corps in Chapel Hill.


 She is a daughter of Melissa W. Baird and Dan R. Baird of Mebane, N.C. The bride’s father is the chief operations officer at Splawn Belting, a company in Burlington, N.C., that manufactures lightweight conveyor and flat power transmission belting for food processing and other applications. Her mother was a stay-at-home parent.

 Mr. Frevert is a senior consumer research analyst at MullenLowe, an advertising agency in Winston-Salem, N.C. He graduated from the University of Missouri.


 He is the son of Suzanne R. Frevert and Lawrence J. Frevert of Highland Park, Ill. The groom’s father is the director of medical operations and general manager at Amcor Flexibles, a company in Buffalo Grove, Ill., that develops and produces packaging for the food, beverage, pharmaceutical and medical-device industries, among others. His mother was also a stay-at-home parent.


 Amanda Lee and Dr. Derek Guo Ju were married March 30 at the Bel-Air Bay Club in Pacific Palisades, Calif. Eric Schwartz, a Universal Life minister, officiated.


 Mrs. Ju, 29, is a senior informatics analyst for UCLA Health in Los Angeles, where she helps implement electronic health systems. She graduated from Boston University.

 She is the daughter of May Lee of Braintree, Mass. The bride’s mother is a design engineer for Vanderweil Engineers in Boston.


 Dr. Ju, 30, is a chief resident of orthopedic surgery at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He graduated from M.I.T. and received a medical degree from Johns Hopkins University.


 He is the son of Mali Guo and Jiann-Wen Ju of Calabasas, Calif. The groom’s father is a professor and former chairman of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at U.C.L.A. His mother was a stay-at-home parent.


 The couple met while attending college in Boston.


 Carter Martin Hahn and Mahlon Aaron Hartselle were married March 30 at the Martine Chaisson Gallery in New Orleans. Christine Wennekamp, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated, with Danielle Gard, another friend, taking part in the ceremony.

 Mr. Hahn (right), 34, leads the brand team at Crunchyroll, an anime streaming service based in San Francisco. He graduated from Princeton.


 He is the son of Tracy M. Hahn and Jeffrey A. Hahn of Manhattan Beach, Calif. His father is a senior vice president of Farmers and Merchants Bank in Long Beach, Calif. His mother retired as a sales associate at Williams Sonoma. She previously taught banking at Beverly Hills High School.


 Mr. Hartselle, who is 31 and known as Aaron, is a Los Angeles-based event producer and designer. He graduated from the University of Denver.


 He is the son of Glenda Sisk Hartselle and Mahlon Arthur Hartselle of Denver. His father retired as the owner of an insurance company, bearing his name, in Seminole, Fla. His mother, also retired, was a registered nurse and member of her husband’s insurance team.


 The couple met in June 2010 during Pride Week celebrations in San Francisco.


 Gena Lauren Gonzales and Nathan Samuel Greenberg were married March 30 at the Harvard Club of New York City. Rabbi Dennis Tobin officiated.


 The bride, 30, is a litigation associate in the New York law firm Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges. She graduated from Brown and received a law degree from Harvard.


 She is a the daughter of Katherine A. Gonzales and James D. Gonzales of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. The bride’s parents work in the Wayne County Prosecutor’s Office in Detroit. Her father is chief of the special operations division, and her mother is an assistant prosecutor in the juvenile division.


 The groom, 31, is counsel in the New York office of McGuireWoods, a law firm based in Richmond, Va. He graduated from the University of Michigan and received a law degree from the University of Chicago.


 He is a son of Illana Panush Greenberg and Daniel B. Greenberg of Franklin, Mich. The groom’s mother is the endowment campaign director for Hillel of Metro Detroit. His father is the director of major gifts for the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit.


 The couple met in June 2016 in New York through the dating app Tinder, despite having both grown up in Michigan and having attended rival high schools less than two miles apart.

 Dr. Daniel Calvin Leung and Richard Joseph Kinnard were married March 30 at the Riviera in Palm Springs, Calif. Amy Key Camp, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated, with Monica Thakrar, another friend, taking part.


 Dr. Leung (left), 44, is an anesthesiologist for Medical Anesthesia Consultants in Walnut Creek, Calif. He graduated from the University of California at Davis and received a medical degree from George Washington University.


 He is a son of Josephine Leung and Wayman Leung of Stockton, Calif. Dr. Leung’s mother retired as a bookkeeper at the Chinchiolo Fruit Company in Stockton. His father, also retired, owned Super Save Market, a grocery store, also in Stockton.


 Mr. Kinnard, who is 45 and works in San Francisco, is a senior associate at HBA International, global interior designers of luxury hotels and restaurants based in Santa Monica, Calif. He graduated from Georgetown and received a master’s degree in interior design from Pratt Institute.

 He is a the son of the late Catherine A. Kinnard and the late Richard P. Kinnard, who lived in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Kinnard’s mother was a stay-at-home parent. His father owned local hardware stores, known as McMahon Hardware, in Kansas City. Mr. Kinnard is also the paternal grandson of
 
  Elizabeth Wilde Kinnard
 
 , a sprinter who competed in the 100-meter finals of the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. (She finished sixth, in 12.3 seconds.)


 The couple met through an online dating website in 2014 and were engaged in September 2017.


 Jennifer Adams Hagan and Jeffrey Adam Humenansky were married March 30 at the Inn at Rancho Santa Fe, a resort and spa in San Diego. The Rev. Cole Floyd, a Baptist minister, officiated.


 The bride, 33, is the founder of ATLAS &amp; VALISE, a San Diego-based luxury travel consultancy that is an affiliate of Travel Edge, a Virtuoso member agency. She graduated from Wake Forest University and received an M.B.A. from the University of Virginia.


 She is the daughter of Daphne R. Hagan and Kevin F. Hagan of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. The bride’s father is the vice president of the Dominican Caribbean Corporation, a real estate investment company based in New York and the Dominican Republic. Her mother retired as a teacher at the Cold Spring Harbor Nursery School in Cold Spring Harbor. She serves on the board of Three Harbors Garden Club in Cold Spring Harbor.


 The groom, 35, who is known as Adam, works in San Diego as a consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton, a management and information technology consulting firm based in McLean, Va., where he specializes in risk management and configuration management. He graduated from Wake Forest, from which he also received a master’s degree in computer science.

 He is a son of Bootsie U. Winn and David F. Humenansky of Great Falls, Va. The groom’s mother is the founder of the SafeSpot Children’s Advocacy Center in Fairfax, Va. His father, who is retired, was a partner in Booz Allen Hamilton.


 The couple met in April 2017 at the wedding of the groom’s brother in West Palm Beach, Fla. Ms. Hagan was a guest at the wedding as she and the marrying couple had attended graduate school together at Virginia.

 Advertisement

 
  By
  
   JASON BAILEY
  
 
 
  
   UPDATED
  
  April 9, 2019
 


 
  We’ve plucked out the 50 best films currently streaming on Netflix in the United States. Take a look.
 


 
  
   Sign up for our Watching Newsletter
  
  
   to get recommendations on the best films and TV shows to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox.
  
 



 The sheer volume of films on Netflix — and the site’s less than ideal interface — can make finding a genuinely great movie there a difficult task. To help, we’ve plucked out the 50 best films currently streaming on the service in the United States, updated regularly as titles come and go. And as a bonus, we mention 50 more great movies on Netflix within many of our writeups below. (Note: Streaming services sometimes remove titles or change starting dates without giving notice.)


 
  
   Our list of the best movies on Amazon Prime Video is
  
  
   here
  
  
   .
  
 



 This vivid, evocative memory play from Alfonso Cuarón is a story of two Mexican women in the early 1970s: Sofía (Marina de Tavira), a mother of four whose husband (and provider) is on his way out the door, and Cleo (Yalitza Aparicio), the family’s nanny, maid and support system. His scenes are occasionally stressful, often heart-wrenching, and they unfailingly burst with life and emotion. Our critic called it “
 
  an expansive, emotional portrait of life buffeted by violent forces, and a masterpiece
 
 .” (Fans of challenging drama should also seek out “
 
  
   The Master
  
 
 ” and “
 
  
   A Serious Man
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 A young boy’s search for his mysterious heritage and his musical voice takes him, quite literally, beyond this world in this charming, touching and joyful treat from Disney and Pixar. Set in Mexico on the Day of the Dead, the screenplay (by co-director Adrian Molina and Matthew Aldrich) cheerfully interweaves the traditions of the holiday and culture with its own rules of death and afterlife. Our critic wrote, “
 
  it plays a time-tested tune with captivating originality and flair
 
 .” (Movie musical fans should also queue up “
 
  
   West Side Story
  
 
 ” on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 In this, the eighth installment of the “Star Wars” saga, the writer-director Rian Johnson (“Looper”) bends the boundaries of the series in fascinating ways — tinkering with iconography, exploding expectations and taking the universe in unexpected directions. “The Last Jedi” delivers the blockbuster goods, with chases, dogfights and lightsaber battles galore. But it is also a subtle and thoughtful meditation on the franchise itself, and the necessity of storytellers who are willing to take big risks. Daisy Ridley, Oscar Isaac, and John Boyega all shine, but the powerhouse performer is Mark Hamill, who brings a lifetime of hope and disappointment to his long-awaited revival of Luke Skywalker. Our critic called it “
 
  a satisfying, at times transporting entertainment
 
 .” (Johnson’s first feature film, the scorching neo-noir “
 
  Brick
 
 ,” is also streaming on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The latest from Joel and Ethan Coen is an anthology film set in the Old West, a series of stories of varying length and style, some as short and simple as jokes, others with the richness and depth of a great short story. Our critic wrote, “
 
  It swerves from goofy to ghastly so deftly and so often that you can’t always tell which is which
 
 ," and what seems at first like a filmed notebook of ideas and orphans instead becomes something of a workshop; it’s a place for the Coens to try things, experimenting with new styles and moods, while also delivering the kind of dark humor and deliciously ornate dialogue that we’ve come to expect. (Admirers of this post-modern Western may also enjoy Sam Peckinpah’s classic “
 
  
   The Wild Bunch
  
 
 ,” also on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Director David Fincher’s breakthrough film was the serial-killer thriller “Seven,” but he had no intention of repeating himself with this 2007 mystery. Because the real-life Zodiac killer was never apprehended or tried for his crime, Fincher sidestepped the big payoff of most true crime stories, crafting instead a film that focuses on the kind of obsessiveness it takes to follow that trail, year after year, without a satisfactory conclusion. Our critic called it “
 
  at once sprawling and tightly constructed, opaque and meticulously detailed
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Flint Lockwood (energetically voiced by Bill Hader) creates a satellite that can turn water into food, transforming his forgotten fishing island into a gourmet destination and a tourist hot spot. But when the portions start to mutate into oversized super-foods, Flint has to find the courage to finish what he started. Anna Farris, James Caan, Mr. T and Bruce Campbell are the standouts in the voice cast, and while the little ones will love the images of hot dogs and spaghetti falling from the sky, there’s also a lesson to learn about being yourself and doing what’s right. Our critic called it “
 
  a single serving of inspired lunacy
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 This 2004 breakthrough film by Michel Gondry is a miraculous combination of science fiction ideas, romantic-comedy meet-cutes and lovelorn drama, somehow delivering on all counts. Working from a typically clever screenplay by Charlie Kaufman (“Being John Malkovich”), he tells the story of a perpetual sad sack (Jim Carrey) who subjects himself to an experimental procedure in hopes of erasing all memory of his ex-girlfriend (Kate Winslet). Our critics called it “
 
  a wintry pop song of a film, one you want to play on repeat
 
 ”; achingly melancholy yet riotously funny, it's one of the great romances of our scrambled age. (Kaufman's “
 
  
   Synecdoche, New York
  
 
 ” is also on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Kathryn Hahn and Paul Giamatti shine as two New York creative types whose attempts to start a family — by adoption, by fertilization, by whatever it takes — test the mettle of their relationships and sanity. The wise script by the director Tamara Jenkins is not only funny and truthful but also sharply tuned to their specific world: Few films have better captured the very public nature of marital trouble in New York, when every meltdown is interrupted by passers-by and looky-loos. “Private Life,” which our critic called “
 
  piquant and perfect
 
 ,” is a marvelous balancing act of sympathy and cynicism, both caring for its subjects and knowing them and their flaws well enough to wink and chuckle.


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The director Alan J. Pakula meticulously details the early days of Watergate — the crime, the cover-up and the scandal that ultimately brought down the Nixon presidency. The reporting of that story was unpacked by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein in
 
  their 1974 book
 
 ; aside from casting
 
  Robert Redford
 
 and Dustin Hoffman to play them, Pakula and the screenwriter
 
  William Goldman
 
 steadfastly refused to glam up this decidedly un-Hollywood story, focusing not on the dramatic fall of the president but on the grunt work of shoe-leather reporting. Our critic called it “
 
  riveting
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 So much of this 1981 Steven Spielberg adventure has entered the realm of pop culture immortality — the rolling boulder, the melting Nazi face, the truck chase — that it’s easy to forget how fleet-footed, fresh and funny it is. Riffing on the Saturday afternoon serials that thrilled them as children, director Spielberg and producer George Lucas packed a full series of heroes, villains, cliffhangers and fisticuffs into a single crowd-pleasing feature. Our critic called it “
 
  one of the most deliriously funny, ingenious and stylish American adventure movies ever made
 
 .” (For more of Dr. Jones, check out “
 
  
   Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom
  
 
 ” on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 This 2003 Oscar nominee from the director Fernando Meirelles renders its oft-told tale of neighborhood crime with such brash energy and intoxicating exuberance that it feels brand new. Meirelles and his co-director, Kátia Lund, construct their film as a slum-kids “Goodfellas”; like that film, “City of God” is based on true events, capturing the awful seductiveness of the criminal life and the dire consequences for those who choose it. Our critic called it a “
 
  scorching anecdotal history of violence
 
 .” (Meirelles’ next film, “
 
  
   The Constant Gardener
  
 
 ,” is also on Netflix, as is the similarly sprawling crime epic “
 
  
   Once Upon a Time in America
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The British comedy troupe Monty Python created its funniest, wildest and cult-friendliest feature-length comedy with this 1975 send-up of the legend of King Arthur — and of medieval literature in general, and of big-screen epics. Graham Chapman is the ostensible lead as Arthur, leading his Knights of the Round Table on a quest for the Grail, but the plot is merely a clothesline on which to hang blackout sketches and self-aware gags, and there are many. Our critic called it
 
  “a marvelously particular kind of lunatic endeavor.”
 
 (For more fun with Python, queue up the button-pushing 1979 Biblical spoof “
 
  
   Life of Brian
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The director Carol Reed’s adaptation of the novel by Graham Greene depicts a struggling novelist (Joseph Cotton) who travels to Vienna to investigate the death of his old pal Harry Lime (Orson Welles), only to discover that there’s much more to the story than he’s been told. The stylish cinematography and unforgettable score help make this one of the finest of all noir films;
 
  our critic
 
 called it “a bang-up melodrama.” (Fans of classic thrillers were also want to watch Hitchcock's “
 
  
   Strangers on a Train
  
 
 ”; the Welles-directed “
 
  
   The Magnificent Ambersons
  
 
 ” is also streaming on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 This wild 1978
 
  blockbuster
 
 launched the film career of John Belushi, the “slobs vs. snobs” comedy subgenre and the mainstream aspirations of the subversive humor magazine National Lampoon. A deliriously funny rampage of food fights, toga parties, horse abductions and wrecked parades on a college campus circa 1962, with the director John Landis engagingly orchestrating the chaos and Belushi stealing every possible scene as the frat’s resident party animal. Our critic called it “
 
  very funny, with gags that are effective in a dependable, all-purpose way
 
 .” (For more wild comedy, queue up “
 
  
   The Birdcage
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Over a 12-year period, the director Richard Linklater surreptitiously constructed “Boyhood” around the non-actor Ellar Coltrane, folding that boy’s development from age 6 to 18 into a fictional narrative about growing up under a devoted single mother (Patricia Arquette) and a father (Ethan Hawke) whose presence in his life is much less consistent. Watching Coltrane age is a uniquely powerful experience by itself, but Linklater keeps the frame open to larger developments in culture and politics, too, as well as to the particulars of family life in Texas. Manohla Dargis called it “
 
  Mr. Linklater’s masterpiece
 
 .” (Love coming-of-age dramas? Try “
 
  
   Good Will Hunting
  
 
 ” or “
 
  
   Mustang
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 A Puritan family, banished to the woods of New England by its community, encounters a frightening force of true evil in this potent mixture of art-house drama and supernatural thriller from the writer and director Robert Eggers. Resisting jump-scares and cheap thrills in favor of slow burns and discomforting dread, Eggers builds his story to a climax that seems both terrifying and inevitable. Our critic called it “
 
  a finely calibrated shiver of a movie
 
 .” (For more arty horror, see “
 
  
   The Wailing
  
 
 ;” if your tastes run more mainstream, try “
 
  
   Poltergeist
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Three crime stories — a hit man out to dinner with his boss’s wife, a boxer who decides not to throw the big fight and a contract killing gone awry — are shuffled like cards in a deck, told out of order and with delightful narrative curveballs in this 1994 hodgepodge from the writer-director Quentin Tarantino. He writes the kind of tasty, self-aware dialogue that actors love to devour, and he puts together an enviable ensemble cast of big names, fallen stars and rising talents to deliver it. Our critic calls it a work of “
 
  depth, wit and blazing originality.
 
 ”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 A small-time punk band unknowingly books a gig at a white supremacist bar and quickly regrets the decision in this white-knuckle thriller. “Green Room” requires a strong stomach — the action leans grisly, and its portrayal of bigots pulls no punches — but the director
 
  Jeremy Saulnier
 
 keeps the pace so taut and the filmmaking efficient, it leaves the viewer breathless. A.O. Scott called it “
 
  a tense and nasty siege movie
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Brie Larson won an Oscar for her powerful leading performance in this moving adaptation of the novel by Emma Donoghue, in which a woman held for years in captivity tries to escape from her kidnapper with the help of her young son.
 
  Lenny Abrahamson’s intimate direction
 
 emphasizes the claustrophobia of their surroundings, but tantalizes with the promise and possibility of escape. (For more Oscar-winning drama, stream “
 
  
   Milk
  
 
 ,”
 
 
 “
 
  
   The English Patient
  
 
 ” and “
 
  
   The King’s Speech
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Joel and Ethan Coen won their first Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director (and their second for Best Screenplay) for this gripping, moody, and darkly funny adaptation of Cormac McCarthy’s
 
  dusty 2005 novel
 
 . Telling the stories of a ruthless killer (Javier Bardem, who took home an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor), a morally flexible rancher (Josh Brolin) and a small-town sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones) whose paths cross when a border drug deal goes south, the Coens construct a Western contemporary in both its setting and style, setting the table for the standard stand-offs and shoot-outs, then turning those expectations inside out. Our critic called it “
 
  bleak, scary and relentlessly violent
 
 .” (For more crime with a whiff of Western, queue up “
 
  
   Hell or High Water
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Two contract killers are sent to the Belgian tourist town of Bruges to wait for their next mission in this sharp, witty cross between “Pulp Fiction” and “Waiting for Godot.” The writer-director
 
  Martin McDonagh
 
 couches the existential dilemma of his hitmen characters in questions of Catholic guilt and redemption, and ends up with a picture far richer and more nuanced than the Tarantino rip-off promised by its ads. (For a somewhat sillier action/comedy with a similar setting, check out “
 
  
   Hot Fuzz
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 A 52-year-old Georgian woman shocks her family, and her entire community, when she decides to move out of the cramped family apartment — leaving her husband, children and parents behind in order to finally begin a life of her own. “In this world, there are no families without problems,” she is told, and the conflicts of the script by Nana Ekvtimishvili (who also directed, with Simon Gross) are a sharp reminder that while the cultural specifics may vary, familial guilt and passive aggression are bound by no language. Manohla Dargis praised its “
 
  sardonically funny, touching key
 
 .” (For more critically acclaimed foreign drama, try the Oscar nominated Hungarian film “
 
  
   On Body and Soul
  
 
 ” or Guillermo del Toro’s Spanish smash “
 
  
   Pan’s Labyrinth
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The legendary filmmaker
 
  Agnès Varda
 
 teamed with the French visual artist known only as J.R. for this charming 2017 documentary, capturing their journey across rural France, where they explore themes of artistic fulfillment, collaboration, small-town life and (inevitably) mortality and legacy. “Despite its unassuming, conversational ethos,” wrote A.O. Scott, “‘Faces Places’ reveals itself as
 
  a powerful, complex and radical work
 
 .” (Netflix is also streaming the acclaimed documentaries “
 
  
   The Look of Silence
  
 
 ,” and “
 
  
   Icarus
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The Iranian director Asghar Farhadi won a richly deserved Academy Award for best foreign film for this story of a man, his wife, their child and the family they disastrously intersect with. In dramatizing the moral, social and legal fallout of a domestic episode that was either a misunderstanding or an assault, Farhadi displays
 
  his gift
 
 for telling stories that hinge on the tiniest events. A.O. Scott called it “tightly structured” and “
 
  emotionally astute.
 
 ”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 “This here's Miss Bonnie Parker. I'm Clyde Barrow. We rob banks.” With those simple but accurate words, the producer and star Warren Beatty helped kick off a whole new movement of subversive, challenging, youth-oriented moviemaking. Directed by Arthur Penn, the film initially received mixed criticism — our critic dismissed it as “
 
  a cheap piece of bald-faced slapstick
 
 ” — but in the passing years, its power and influence became undeniable. Every performance is a gem, but Beatty and Faye Dunaway rarely rose to this level in their other work, mixing sexuality, danger, restlessness and ennui.


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Jonathan Demme’s final feature film was shot on the last two nights of Justin Timberlake’s “20/20 Experience” world tour, at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. The pairing of director and subject is unexpected, but Demme is up to the job; as in his Talking Heads film “
 
  Stop Making Sense
 
 ,” he
 
  deftly captures
 
 the energy, electricity and playfulness of a live concert performance, a directorial feat that is harder than it looks. (For a grittier music documentary, check out “
 
  
   Metallica: Some Kind of Monster
  
 
 ” or “
 
  
   Anvil! The Story of Anvil
  
  .
 
 ”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Director Mark Osborne (“Kung Fu Panda”) took an unconventional approach to adapting the
 
  classic children’s book
 
 by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry for the screen, placing its story of an aviator’s encounters with a magical little boy inside a contemporary tale of a little girl’s friendship with that aviator (now a grizzled old man). It sounds like a recipe for disaster, fixing a book that isn’t broken, but “The Little Prince” is a small miracle, maintaining the magic and sweetness of the original while contextualizing it for a new generation. Our critic called it “
 
  unusually forceful and imaginative
 
 .” (Viewers looking for more offbeat family fun should try “
 
  
   
    Coraline
   
  
 
 ” or
 
  “
  
   Billy Elliot
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Ava DuVernay (“Selma”) directs this wide-ranging deep dive into mass incarceration, tracing the advent of America’s overcrowded (and disproportionately minority-filled) modern prison system back to the 13th Amendment of the United States Constitution. It’s a giant topic to take on in 100 minutes, and DuVernay understandably has to do some skimming and slicing. But that necessity engenders its style: “13TH” tears through history with a palpable urgency that pairs nicely with its righteous fury. Our critic called it “
 
  powerful, infuriating and at times overwhelming
 
 .” (Documentary fans should also seek out “
 
  
   Blackfish
  
 
 ” and “
 
  
   Jiro Dreams of Sushi
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The
 
  brutal, muscular novel
 
 by James Dickey gets an appropriately unsettling big-screen treatment in this film adaptation from the director John Boorman. Burt Reynolds, Jon Voight, Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox play Atlanta businessmen who head to the Georgia backwoods for a canoeing trip and get a bit more local color than they planned for. Nominated for three Oscars (including best picture), our critic called it a “
 
  stunning piece of moviemaking
 
 .” (For another adaptation of first-rate fiction, try Ben Affleck’s take on Dennis Lehane’s “
 
  
   Gone Baby Gone
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 This brainy sci-fi story from director
 
  Duncan Jones
 
 (“Mute”) is almost entirely a one-man show, and Sam Rockwell, as a working-class astronaut on a solo mission, is the man for the job — he’s alternately tragic, funny, driven and bitter, often in the same scene, frequently playing to himself. “Moon” is thrilling and thought-provoking, with a stunning finale. Our critic called it a “
 
  modest, haunting first feature
 
 .” (For more science fiction, check out “
 
  
   Ex Machina
  
 
 ”; for science non-fiction, try “
 
  
   Apollo 13
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Relocating the 2002 international hit “
 
  Infernal Affairs
 
 ” from Hong Kong to Boston, this 2006 Best Picture winner tells the intertwining stories of a tough young cop (Leonardo DiCaprio) who goes undercover to infiltrate the crew of a local Mob boss (Jack Nicholson), just as his surrogate son (Matt Damon) goes undercover in the Boston Police Department. The possibilities for deception and unmasking are endless, and the director Martin Scorsese mines the tension from every angle while investing the central predicaments with psychological nuance and dark humor. Our critic praised “
 
  the speed and Mr. Scorsese’s sureness of touch
 
 .” (For more superb late-period Scorsese, we recommend “
 
  
   The Aviator
  
 
 ”; co-star Mark Wahlberg also shines in another Boston-set drama, “
 
  
   The Fighter
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 After almost 20 years of popcorn moviemaking, Steven Spielberg
 
  proved himself
 
 to be not only a serious dramatist but also one of our most gifted historical chroniclers with this 1993 film. In it, he tells the true story of Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson), a German businessman and member of the Nazi party who became the unlikely savior of more than 1,000 Jewish workers in his factories. Our critic wrote that Spielberg directed the film “
 
  with fury and immediacy
 
 .” (For more historical drama from Spielberg, queue up “
 
  
   
    Lincoln
   
  
 
 ”; for another Oscar-winning story of the Holocaust, try “
 
  
   The Pianist
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 This historical drama from writer-director Julie Dash proved something of a challenge for general audiences when it was originally released in 1991. But its reputation has grown in the years since (thanks, in no small part, to the
 
  explicit homage
 
 paid to it by Beyoncé’s “Lemonade”), elevating it to its proper place among the most important independent films of its era. Our critic called it “
 
  a film of spellbinding visual beauty
 
 .” (If you like gorgeous period pieces, try “
 
  
   The Immigrant
  
 
 .)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Few fictional characters have embedded themselves in the pop culture consciousness as firmly as Dr. Hannibal Lecter, the brilliant monster brought to bone-chilling life by an Oscar-winning Anthony Hopkins in
 
  Jonathan Demme’s 1991 adaptation
 
 of
 
  the Thomas Harris bestseller
 
 . The film also won awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Screenplay, and Best Actress – a quintuple play only matched two other times in film history – all deserving, none perhaps more so than Jodie Foster, whose indelible portrayal of the rookie F.B.I. investigator Clarice Starling sharply combines small-town naiveté with quick-witted strength. Our critic called it “
 
  pop film making of a high order
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 This wryly funny drama from Mike Nichols, adapted from the novel by Charles Webb, has become such an entrenched piece of popular culture (50-plus years later, you still don’t have to explain what “Mrs. Robinson” means), it is easy to lose track of what a great
 
  entertainment
 
 it is. But it is: Using Dustin Hoffman as his marvelously dry-witted vessel, Nichols dramatizes youthful ennui with a skill rarely seen in American cinema. Our critic called it “
 
  funny, outrageous, and touching
 
 .” (Another classic coming-of-age movie, Elia Kaznan’s “
 
  
   East of Eden
  
 
 ,” is also streaming on Netflix.)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Steven Spielberg had only a single feature and a handful of TV credits to his name when he was handed the task of adapting a pulpy best seller about a killer shark. The famously troubled production, which went weeks over schedule and millions over budget, forced the director to rely more on suspense and characterization than on special effects. The rest is
 
  cinema history
 
 . The scary moments are breathlessly executed, but our attachment to the three protagonists (wonderfully brought to life by Richard Dreyfuss, Roy Scheider and Robert Shaw) renders the stakes far higher than in your standard blockbuster. (For more classic action, try “
 
  
   The Terminator
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 It sounds like the setup for an ’80s sex comedy: Two horny teenage boys take an impromptu road trip and talk a seductive older woman into coming along. But director
 
  Alfonso Cuarón
 
 (“Gravity,” “Children of Men”), “Y Tu Mamá También” frames their story partly through the unexpected but effective lens of class and political struggle, constructing a delicate film with much to say about masculinity, poverty and mortality. And
 
  then
 
 it’s sexy, on top of that. Our critic called it “
 
  fast, funny, unafraid of sexuality and finally devastating
 
 .” (For more adventurous foreign cinema, check out “
 
  
   Happy as Lazarro
  
 
 ” or “
 
  
   Incendies
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Patricia Highsmith’s lesbian romance novel “
 
  The Price of Salt
 
 ,” originally written under the pseudonym Claire Morgan, is sensitively and intelligently adapted by director Todd Haynes into this companion to his earlier masterpiece “Far From Heaven.” Cate Blanchett is smashing as a suburban ‘50s housewife who finds herself so intoxicated by a bohemian shopgirl (an enchanting
 
  Rooney Mara
 
 ) that she’s willing to risk her entire comfortable existence in order, just once, to follow her heart. Our critic said it’s “
 
  at once ardent and analytical, cerebral and swooning
 
 .” (
 
  “
 
 
  
   Quiz Show
  
 
 
  ”
 
 is another must-see drama set in the 1950s; Mara also does stellar work in “
 
  
   Her
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The films of the Romanian auteur Cristian Mungiu (which include “
 
  4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days”
 
 and “Beyond the Hills”) are in many ways morality plays, a practice he forcefully advances in his most recent effort. Through a bleak and crumbling post-Soviet cityscape, the film follows a well-to-do doctor (Adrian Titieni) whose daughter (Maria Dragus) is assaulted just before her college-entrance exams; as he attempts to rescue her future, however, his efforts lead him down a darkening path that obscures his sense of right and wrong. A.O. Scott called the film “
 
  nerve-racking and humane
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 The fates of two families — one white and one black, connected by a plot of land one owns and the other sharecrops — are inextricably intertwined in this
 
  powerful adaptation
 
 by director Dee Rees of
 
  the novel
 
 by Hillary Jordan. Rees gracefully tells both stories (and the larger tale of postwar America) without veering into didacticism, and her ensemble cast brings every moment of text and subtext into sharp focus. Our critic called it a work of “
 
  disquieting, illuminating force
 
 .” (Co-star Carey Mulligan also impresses in another period drama, “
 
  
   An Education
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Paying loving tribute to the exploitation movies of multiple eras and cultures, this double-feature dabbles in kung fu, anime, spaghetti Western and blaxploitation, its writer/director Quentin Tarantino deliriously hopping styles like a movie-crazy kid swapping out VHS tapes. But in all the pyrotechnics, he maintains his gift for quotable dialogue and charismatic characters, ending his blood-soaked saga with on a surprisingly warm and human note. Our critics praised the “
 
  odd, feverish integrity
 
 ” of “Vol. 1,” and called “Vol. 2” “
 
  the most voluptuous comic-book movie ever made
 
 .” (Fans of high-intensity action should also queue up “
 
  
   Train to Busan
  
 
 ” and “
 
  
   The Dirty Dozen
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Winner of the Oscar for best picture of 2009 (and for best director for Kathryn Bigelow), this harrowing war drama concerns a team of specialists trained in on-the-ground bomb diffusion in Iraq — with a particular focus on Staff Sgt. William James (Jeremy Renner), who’s a bit of a loose cannon. Bigelow mines palpable, sweaty tension from this terrifying work, but she doesn’t settle for cheap thrills; the film is most intense when dealing with James’s internal conflicts and his psychological battles with his team. Manohla Dargis called it “
 
  a viscerally exciting, adrenaline-soaked tour de force
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 A young sitcom actress named Jennifer Lawrence burst into the moviemaking mainstream with her tough, memorable performance in this 2010 indie drama from the director
 
  Debra Granik
 
 . Lawrence is startlingly good as a 17-year-old who’s in way over her head, trying desperately to save her family home and track down her father in the meth-ravaged rural Ozarks of Missouri. Our critic called it “
 
  straightforward and suspenseful but also surprising and subtle
 
 .” (Indie drama lovers may also enjoy “
 
  
   Personal Shopper
  
 
 .”)


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Steve Carell’s wide-eyed leading work in the title role of this 2005 romantic comedy made him a star; it also turned the writer-director
 
  Judd Apatow
 
 from a TV talent to a movie-making machine. His eye for new faces is remarkable (Seth Rogen, Paul Rudd, Mindy Kaling, Elizabeth Banks, Jane Lynch, Kat Dennings and Jonah Hill all turn up in early roles), but the film’s tone is its masterstroke: Apatow somehow manages to find a balance that indulges the ribald possibilities of the premise with the sweet romance at the story’s center. Manohla Dargis called it “
 
  sidesplitting
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Francis Ford Coppola’s loose, Vietnam-era adaptation of Joseph Conrad’s “Heart of Darkness” was a notoriously troubled production, harassed by weather woes, political struggles, budget and schedule overages, and problems with actors. Considering how much drama occurred offscreen, it’s somewhat miraculous that the final product is so singular and powerful — an awe-inspiring fusion of ’60s psychedelic film, ’70s genre reimagining and classic wide-screen epic. Our critic called it “
 
  a stunning work
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Paul Newman turns in one of his most iconic performances as the former war hero Lucas Jackson, whose tenacious, rascally free spirit and refusal to kowtow to authority maddens his keepers on a Florida chain gang — and inspires his fellow prisoners. The director Stuart Rosenberg cranks up the sweaty atmosphere and high intensity, placing the viewer right alongside Luke as he fights, runs and bets his way through his sentence, and Newman calls upon all of his considerable charisma to give the character life. Our critic praised its “
 
  intelligent contemplation of the ironies of life
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Stanley Kubrick’s
 
  most controversial
 
 film, and perhaps his most disturbing (neither a small claim), was this 1971 adaptation of the cult novel by Anthony Burgess. It is Kubrick at his
 
  most stylized
 
 , with the narrative’s hyper-violence cushioned by the striking cinematography, futuristic production design and jet-black humor. Our critic wrote that it “
 
  dazzles the senses and mind
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Ang Lee won the academy award for best director for this enthralling mixture of martial arts adventure and heartfelt romance. His narrative is a busy hive of deception, betrayal, loyalty and pride, and while the personal and emotional stakes are high, “Crouching Tiger” is most memorable for its awe-inspiring action sequences — bone-crunching and balletic, thrilling and lyrical, as heroes and villains alike transcend gravity itself. Our critic called it “
 
  a heady and delirious brew
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 Louisa May Alcott’s
 
  classic novel
 
 “Little Women” isn’t a stranger to film adaptation — earlier movie versions date clear back to the silent era — but this 1994 take from the director Gillian Armstrong (“My Brilliant Career”) adroitly pitches the film to modern audiences without condescending to its old-fashioned sentimentality. Handsomely staged and marvelously acted, this is a first-rate introduction to one of the
 
  great works
 
 of young adult literature. Our critic called it “
 
  the loveliest ‘Little Women’ ever on screen
 
 .”


 
  Watch on Netflix
 


 An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Ang Lee won the Oscar for best director for “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.” He was nominated, but did not win.


 Advertisement


 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 TOKYO — Cartoonist Monkey Punch, best known as the creator of the Japanese megahit comic series Lupin III, has died at age of 81.


 His office, MP Pictures, said Wednesday that Monkey Punch, whose real name is Kazuhiko Kato, died of pneumonia on April 11.


 The story of master thief Lupin's adventures with his gang — gunman Daisuke Jigen, sword master Goemon Ishikawa and sexy beauty Fujiko Mine, as well as a detective, Zenigata — started in 1967.


 The cartoon also was adapted for TV animation and movies, some directed by renowned animators including Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata.

 Kato himself directed the 1996 animated film "Lupin III: Dead or Alive." Miyazaki, who directed a 1971 Lupin animation for TV, made his feature-length film debut with "Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro" in 1997.


 The hard-boiled, yet comical story with a bit of sexy content has quickly won adult comic fans and became a longtime best-seller. Kato's intended readership was adults, and he reportedly has told younger fans to watch Lupin TV animation and read comic books when they become high school students.


 The main character in his trademark red jacket is a grandson of famous Arsene Lupin in a Maurice Leblanc detective story.


 The son of a fisherman in Hokkaido, in northern Japan, Kato debuted as a professional cartoonist in 1965 while working part time at a rental bookstore, and started using his penname Monkey Punch soon after the Lupin series started in the Weekly Manga Action magazine.


 Despite his age, he quickly adapted to digital animation and studied animation on multimedia formats at a technical graduate school in Tokyo in the 2000s. Kato also taught animation at a university in Nishinomiya in western Japan.

 ___

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Sara Aridi
 

 
  Jordan Peele’s reboot of the seminal sci-fi series arrives on CBS All Access. And Iggy Pop’s four-part documentary series wraps up on Epix.
 
 


 
  THE TWILIGHT ZONE
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   CBS All Access
  
 
 
  .
 
 March was a big month for Jordan Peele, the Academy Award-winning writer and director behind “Get Out.” It began with the opening of his second feature, the
 
  widely praised horror film “Us.”
 
 And on Monday Peele makes his debut as the narrator and host of
 
  his reimagining
 
 of “The Twilight Zone.” Peele has long idolized that groundbreaking Rod Serling sci-fi anthology series. (The premise of “Us” — about a family besieged by bloodthirsty doppelgängers — was inspired by the episode “Mirror Image.”) The show premieres with two episodes; the first stars Kumail Nanjiani as a fame-seeking comedian, and the second features Adam Scott as a paranoid airline passenger.


 
  ULTRAMAN
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Netflix
  
 
 
  .
 
 The original live-action Japanese show “Ultraman” has led to several sequels and spinoffs in multiple mediums since its debut in the 1960s. At the heart of the franchise is the story of a gigantic superbeing who defends Earth from monsters and alien invasions.
 
  This iteration
 
 , an animated series based on a currently running manga sequel, shifts focus to the original superhero’s son, who, whether he likes it or not, has inherited his father’s powers.

 
  ONE MILLION AMERICAN DREAMS
 
 (2019)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Hulu
  
 
 
  .
 
 Sam Rockwell narrates this documentary about Hart Island, a 101-acre cemetery for about 1 million New Yorkers who never received a proper burial. The Department of Corrections owns the site, which is closed to the public, and pays prison inmates 50 cents an hour to bury the dead. Several families recount how their loved ones wound up there, and their stories are devastating. Glenn Kenny named the movie a Critic’s Pick in his review in The
 
  New York Times
 
 , writing that “it makes a powerful case that the city’s lost dead are due more honor than what Hart Island currently extends.”

 
  PUNK
 
 
  10 p.m. on Epix.
 
 If you yearn for the days when punk, the genre and the lifestyle, hadn’t yet been commodified and commercialized, this
 
  limited documentary series
 
 is right up your alley. Musicians who birthed the punk rock scene — Johnny Rotten of the Sex Pistols, Marky Ramone of the Ramones and Debbie Harry of Blondie, to name a few — look back at the movement with starry-eyed nostalgia. The show comes to a close with a focus on bands that transformed the genre in the 1980s and ’90s, such as Nirvana and Bad Religion, and two all-female groups who burst onto the scene: Bikini Kill and L7.


 
  DC’S LEGENDS OF TOMORROW
 
 
  8 p.m. on the CW.
 
 This DC Comics show returns with another time-traveling mess. When the Legends learn that Mona (Ramona Young) has released a fugitive — though Mona claims her hands are clean — they head to 1961 Mexico City to settle the matter.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 BURNLEY, England, — Chris Wood scored twice as Burnley virtually assured Premier League safety with a 2-0 win over fellow strugglers Cardiff City on Saturday which left the Welsh club deep in relegation trouble and their manager Neil Warnock fuming.


 Cardiff, occupying the final relegation slot in 18th place, are on 28 points, five behind 17th-placed Brighton with five games remaining. Burnley, who have won three in a row, move up to 14th place on 39 points -- 11 ahead of Cardiff.


 But for the large travelling Welsh support the game will be remembered for a second half penalty incident when, with the score at 1-0 to Burnley, referee Mike Dean changed his mind after initially pointing to the spot.


 New Zealander Wood, who had struck the post in the second minute, put the Clarets in front in the 31st minute with a fine header from a Dwight McNeil corner.

 Burnley then had several chances to add to their lead with Cardiff keeper Neil Etheridge twice doing well to keep out shots from Clarets midfielder Ashley Westwood.


 Just before the break, Burnley's Ashley Barnes was booked after a confrontation with Joe Bennett where he appeared to kiss the Cardiff defender on the nose.


 Cardiff came out strongly after the interval and thought they had a great chance to level three minutes into the second half when they were initially awarded a penalty for a handball by Ben Mee.


 The linesman's flag was raised after Mee headed the ball at his own hand and Dean responded by pointing to the spot.


 But after consulting with his assistant Darren Cann, Dean changed his mind, leading to angry protests from the Cardiff players and sighs of relief from the home crowd.

 "Mike must have seen something to go over and we're gutted really. I think Darren made the right decision and Mike has talked him out of it," said Warnock.


 Junior Hoilett then wasted a great chance for Cardiff, blasting high over the bar after being found unmarked inside the area.


 Burnley made sure of the win in stoppage time when Wood added his second goal, nodding home from close range after a winding run from winger McNeil whose low cross was clipped into the air by the sliding Bruno Manga.


 The win means Burnley could be mathematically safe before their next game at Chelsea on Easter Monday but manager Sean Dyche was wary of assuming survival was now guaranteed.


 "I don't think you talk about that because you want it factually. You can't guarantee it but I think we're in a very, very healthy position," he said.


 Warnock's side now play Brighton, who on Saturday suffered a 5-0 thrashing at home to Bournemouth, on Tuesday in a match which looks like the last chance for them to find a path away from the drop.


 (Reporting by Simon Evans; editing by Clare Fallon and Pritha Sarkar)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Critic’s Pick


 When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 By
 
 
  
   Glenn Kenny
  
 

 The 2010 movie
 
  “Ip Man,”
 
 starring the charismatic and ferociously skillful Donnie Yen, put a little spring in the step of the martial arts picture, both artistically and commercially. Hence, there have been a whole lot of “Ip Man” movies since. Some feature Yen, some don’t. This one has him on board as a producer only, and it’s a lively, fun one.


 Ip Man himself was a real martial arts master of the Wing Chun style who trained Bruce Lee, among others. This movie’s lead character, Cheung Tin-chi, is based on an actual person who was so thoroughly fictionalized in
 
  “Ip Man 3”
 
 (2016) that here he can roam free in a made-up story set in a fanciful period Hong Kong.


 Played with quiet charisma and notably high cheekbones by Max Zhang, Cheung has renounced fighting and runs a small grocery while looking after his young son. (That he’s a single dad is practically a given in this genre.) After running afoul of an opium den proprietor, he’s back to jumping and kicking and smashing.

 He is soon up against a gang leader who’s trying to go legit (Michelle Yeoh, in fine fettle) and a Western restaurateur with a secret (Dave Bautista, acquitting himself well), among others.


 Directed by Yuen Woo-ping, the 74-year-old stunt and choreography master who brought his fight mojo to “
 
  The Matrix
 
 ,” “
 
  Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon
 
 ” and both volumes of “
 
  Kill Bill
 
 ,” “Master Z” does a lot of things you hope it will — mainly in serving up inventive fight sequences. It also doesn’t do a few things that you hope it won’t, like serve up Cheung’s young son as a life-endangered prop.

 When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Not rated. In Mandarin and English, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes.





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  The Associated Press
 

 NEW YORK — Jay-Z will help re-open the newly renovated Webster Hall concert venue in New York City with a performance next week.


 Tickets for the April 26 show go on sale Friday. It will be Jay-Z's first time performing at the venue located in Manhattan's East Village.


 Webster Hall has operated as a venue since 1886. Others set to perform there include Patti Smith and Her Band, Rosalia, MGMT, Empire of the Sun, Old Dominion and Chromeo.


 The concert hall says in a press release that the recent renovation "aims to preserve the iconic features of the venue, while modernizing it to meet today's entertainment and guest experience standards."

 ____


 Online: https://websterhall.com

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Joe Coscarelli
  
 

 When it comes to Beyoncé releases, there is usually an element of surprise.


 The singer — who perfected the
 
  secret album drop
 
 in 2013, and has since toyed with the tactic for releases like
 
  “Lemonade”
 
 and
 
  “Everything Is Love,”
 
 with her husband Jay-Z — did it again in the early morning hours Wednesday, one-upping the arrival of her own
 
  Netflix documentary, “Homecoming,”
 
 with a previously unannounced live-album version of the same concert.


 
  [
 
 
  
   Read our review of the Beyoncé documentary “Homecoming.”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 Both the film and the album, also titled “Homecoming,” capture Beyoncé’s performance at last year’s Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, in which the singer — the first black woman to headline the event — was backed by dozens of dancers and an elaborate marching band for a set that nodded to the musical legacy of historically black colleges.


 “There’s not likely to be a more meaningful, absorbing, forceful and radical performance by an American musician this year, or any year soon,” the critic Jon Caramanica
 
  wrote of the show in The New York Times
 
 . “It was rich with history, potently political and visually grand. By turns uproarious, rowdy, and lush. A gobsmacking marvel of choreography and musical direction.”


 Now, the concert — which was live-streamed at the time and recreated for Coachella’s second weekend, but has existed only in bootleg form since — has been preserved for history in multiple mediums. The documentary, a Netflix exclusive billed as “a film by Beyoncé,” features footage from rehearsals and quieter backstage moments — “the emotional road from creative concept to cultural movement,” Netflix said.

 “Homecoming: The Live Album” is a more straightforward recreation of the concert that became known as Beychella. It breaks the more than two-hour performance into 40 tracks, many of which are packed with multiple musical references and sections of other songs.


 
  [
 
 
  
   5 things we learned from Beyoncé’s Coachella doc “Homecoming.”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 Beyoncé’s set list, which varied slightly over the two Coachella performances, included solo hits like “Get Me Bodied,” “Baby Boy” and “Formation,” the Destiny’s Child songs “Say My Name” and “Soldier” (with her former group mates Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams) and various interludes with titles here such as “So Much Damn Swag” and “The Bzzzz Drumline.” She also included a rendition of the hymn “Lift Every Voice and Sing,” a song often referred to as the black national anthem.


 The album also includes an a cappella version of “Lift Every Voice and Sing” by Blue Ivy, Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s oldest daughter, and two bonus tracks: a new cover of “Before I Let Go,” the 1981 song by Maze featuring Frankie Beverly, which appears in the end credits of the documentary, and an alternate version of “I Been On.”


 While some recent Beyoncé releases have been available, at least for a time, only on Tidal, the streaming service owned by Jay-Z, the live album was released across all major streaming platforms, including Apple Music, Spotify and Google Play.


 Since Coachella, Beyoncé has been largely quiet professionally, though she toured with Jay-Z last summer, surprising fans with the nine-track collaborative effort “Everything Is Love” along the way. She has not announced a follow-up.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  NATIONAL
 


 An
 
  article
 
 on Tuesday about a judge’s decision to temporarily seal Stephen Moore’s divorce records misstated the Federal Reserve’s recent actions on interest rates. It increased rates. It did not cut them.


 
  SPORTS
 


 An
 
  article
 
 on Sunday about once-dominant N.H.L. teams adjusting to an evolving league misstated the number of conference finals appearance by the Kings, the Ducks and the Blackhawks since 2009. It is 10, not nine. Because of an editing error, an earlier version also misstated the number of playoff appearances by those teams in that span. It is 24, not 27.


 
  ARTS
 


 An
 
  article
 
 on March 23 about a lawsuit against Harvard over the rightful ownership of photos of slaves described incorrectly the daguerreotype technology around 1850. Exposure times did not require that subjects sit still for as much as an hour.


 •


 A television
 
  review
 
 about “Mrs. Wilson” misstated who wrote the series. It was written by Anna Symon, not Anna Symon and Tim Crook.

 
  SPECIAL SECTION: GEN Z: IN THEIR OWN WORDS
 


 Because of an editing error, an
 
  article
 
 on Sunday about Americans who belong to Generation Z misstated the age of Shanaya Stephenson. She is 23, not 19.


 
  Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
 


 
  To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email
 
 
  
   nytnews@nytimes.com
  
 
 
  or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).
 


 
  Comments on editorials may be emailed to
 
 
  
   letters@nytimes.com
  
 
 
  or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
 


 
  For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email
 
 
  
   customercare@nytimes.com
  
 
 
  .
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Tom Voelk
 

 The displays are dazzling, with platforms twirling and lasers dancing off the fenders of the latest and greatest vehicles around. But the New York International Auto Show won’t open to the public until Saturday, and the press preview days are still underway.


 Welcome to the preshow off-site launch circuit.


 For two weeks, the New York show is the center of the automotive universe. Last year, 61 vehicles made their debuts at the show. To stand out in this crowd, automakers have created satellite events before the official press reveals at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side of Manhattan.


 This gives companies a jump on the torrent of announcements and adds pearlescent shine to coverage of their new vehicle.


 Chatter in the car world suggests that
 
  auto shows
 
 have
 
  lost their impact
 
 . Many automakers still see the benefits. Stuart Schorr, the vice president for communications at Jaguar Land Rover North America, finds them to be moments in time when cars are a hot subject.

 “It’s an amplifier,” Mr. Schorr said. “It’s all over TV, radio, newspapers, the internet and social media. We make the most of that, creating a bigger impact and expanding the reach.”


 This year, Jaguar’s preshow event at the new Manhattan Jaguar Land Rover showroom did triple duty — introducing new versions of the Land Rover Range Rover Velar S.U.V. and the Jaguar XE sedan, promoting the new digs and giving V.I.P. customers the opportunity to meet insiders like the designer Ian Callum.

 Maximum impact is critical for important vehicles. Toyota hired the installation artist Michael Murphy to construct
 
  a three-dimensional model
 
 of the all-new Highlander S.U.V. using 200 panels of suspended paper. Perhaps you saw its image projected onto New York buildings and billboard spaces this week?


 The reveal of the actual vehicle, staged a stone’s throw from the Javits Convention Center, had the paper sculpture suspended near the D.J. Vashtie Kola’s performance set. That’s a lot of edgy art to market a three-row family crossover.

 Some companies without space at the show use its glow for extra coverage. The $2.27 million all-electric Battista hypercar, the first production vehicle by the famed design house Pininfarina, made its United States debut in the Chelsea neighborhood. Its swoopy body and 1,900-horsepower drivetrain will not be shown on the Javits floor.


 “Battista is a piece of automotive art,” said Dan Connell, brand manager of Automobili Pininfarina. “As such, we have selected a fantastic, exclusive gallery in Chelsea to present this design masterpiece.” Considering how many journalists covering the show descended on the studio, the strategy worked.


 Preshow events let manufacturers spend focused time with journalists that isn’t possible on the show floor. At the Lincoln Corsair crossover introduction, writers rotated through three stations as designers and engineers showed how the car was developed.


 “There’s no better way to show what we’re doing and how we’re growing this brand than to bring writers in and give them an in-depth look at what we’re doing and why we’re doing it,” said Megan McKenzie, marketing manager for the Lincoln S.U.V.s.


 Nissan used one of two events for nostalgia. The Datsun (as Nissan was once known in the United States) 240Z was unveiled at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan five decades ago. So it was perhaps fitting that the reveal of the 50th anniversary edition Z car, now badged 370Z, was held Monday evening at the same site (though Z Car enthusiasts were probably hoping for a glimpse of a long overdue all-new model). A second Chelsea soiree was packed with past and present performance machines.

 Sage Marie, public relations vice president with American Honda, sees the value of running events before the big show. “If our press reveal at Javits is late in the day, some media will be overwhelmed,” he said. “Tuesday’s preview of our limited-edition TLX,” which is hand-built in the center where the Acura NSX supercar is produced, “helps our chances at coverage.”

 Conversely, Mr. Marie said, sometimes a surprise provides the biggest punch. “We launched the all-new Civic concept in 2015,” he said. “No one expected it. And that bombshell stole the show.” Its chartreuse paint didn’t hurt.


 In the shadow of the Vessel at Hudson Yards, Hyundai’s luxury brand, Genesis, wheeled out the Mint, an electric two-seat concept city car with a minimalist interior. It was one of the hottest tickets in town, with passers-by trying to sneak in. One woman offered a writer $100 for his admission lanyard.


 Asked if the Mint would reach production, a Genesis official offered a hint: “We generally don’t produce concept cars willy-nilly.”


 Smaller events like these orbit all the major auto shows, often with lofty budgets.


 Days before the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show, Porsche turned its L.A. Experience center into a media extravaganza to introduce the brand’s spiritual touchstone: the all-new 911 for 2020. The actor Armie Hammer was there, bleacher seating for hundreds of journalists was erected, and acres of custom video displays caused a commercial producer next to me to ponder aloud, “How did they figure out how to shoot for a screen 40 yards long?”


 These expensive launches can actually be bargains for automakers. The cost of many events is less than running a television ad during an N.F.L. game.


 Despite all of this, plenty of automakers will stick to the traditional reveal at the Javits Convention Center. Look for Hyundai’s new Venue crossover and Sonata sedan plus Subaru’s all-new Outback, among dozens of others.









 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Joe Coscarelli
  
 

 A year after one of the most critically lauded festival performances in recent pop history, Beychella is coming to Netflix.


 “Homecoming,” teased by the streaming service as “a film by Beyoncé,” will be available on April 17, according to a trailer released Monday, which shows concert footage and backstage preparations from the singer’s
 
  headlining performance at Coachella last year
 
 .


 The documentary will provide an “intimate, in-depth look” at the concert, revealing “the emotional road from creative concept to cultural movement,” Netflix said.

 The nearly two-hour show at the Empire Polo Club in California featured dozens of musicians backing Beyoncé in the style of historically black college marching bands and traced “a lineage of Southern black musical traditions from New Orleans second line marches to Houston’s chopped-and-screwed hip-hop,” said the critic Jon Caramanica in The New York Times.

 “There’s not likely to be a more meaningful, absorbing, forceful and radical performance by an American musician this year, or any year soon,”
 
  he wrote
 
 . “It was rich with history, potently political and visually grand. By turns uproarious, rowdy, and lush. A gobsmacking marvel of choreography and musical direction.”


 
  [Read the
 
 
  
   full review of Beyoncé’s Coachella set
  
 
 
  .]
 


 Beyoncé
 
  had been scheduled
 
 to headline the festival in 2017, but pushed her performance back a year after becoming pregnant with twins. “Thank you for allowing me to be the first black woman to headline Coachella,” she told the crowd at her comeback show.


 The trailer for “Homecoming” features clips from rehearsals and Beyoncé’s workout routine, in addition to moments with her children and husband, the rapper Jay-Z, who made a cameo appearance at Coachella. Using
 
  a 2013 interview with the poet and activist Maya Angelou
 
 , not long before her death the next year, a voice-over on the trailer says, “What I really wanted to do is be a representative of my race — of the human race.”


 “I have a chance to show how kind we can be, how intelligent and generous we can be,” Angelou continues. “I have a chance to teach and to love and to laugh. And I know that when I finish doing what I’m sent here to do, I will be called home.”







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 lens


 After his apartment was demolished to make space for Barclays Center, Jeff Mermelstein photographed the new arena’s suits, shills and suds.


 Photographs by
 
 
  Jeff Mermelstein
 


 Text by
 
 
  
   John Leland
  
 

 In the secular architecture of New York, few houses of worship invite more devotion than our massive sports venues, built on the holy commandments of tax abatements and corporate sponsorship. Nowhere are more elevated hopes kindled or dashed; nowhere else can 20,000 people simultaneously decide that the 25-year-old guy who earns $8 million a year is a total loser.


 For nearly four years, the street photographer Jeff Mermelstein had free rein to shoot the congregants at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn — pilgrims to the temporary shrine of Jay-Z or Barbra Streisand or the Nets or professional wrestling.

 Mr. Mermelstein earned the assignment the hard way: his loft had to be torn down to make room for the arena. From this fraught start began a longstanding friendship with the arena’s chief developer, Bruce Ratner, who commissioned Mr. Mermelstein to do his stuff, no strings attached.


 For the photographer, this often meant looking down. Whatever passion drove people to the arena, whatever faith united them, they tended to spill a lot of crap on the floor. Ketchup, soda, clothing, beer, popcorn — for Mr. Mermelstein, each mess suggested some activity that was now past, survived only by this clue. Who places a full bucket of popcorn in an arena corridor?

 Really, a pickle? And is it artisanal? (After all, this is Brooklyn).

 Mr. Mermelstein photographed performers and athletes and fans inside the arena’s main area, but found he was drawn to the life in the outer corridors, a neutral zone between the street and the big show within. “The corridors became my Sixth Avenue,” he said, referring to the mix of cultures and fashions on one of his choice spots for shooting street life in Manhattan.


 “On the most literal level, the main difference is that the corridor is a container. When you walk down any street in New York, it’s open. But in the corridor of an arena, it’s quite closed. It’s a vessel, a ship, even.”


 Seventy-one of the images are collected in a book called “
 
  Arena
 
 ,” from TBW Books.

 This being Brooklyn in 2019, Mr. Mermelstein’s 300-plus visits to the arena underscored the diversity of life within. Though Barclays, like other venues, has done its best to segregate the most privileged from the least, and the upper-middles from the middle-middles, in the corridors, as in our heart of hearts, we all love Beyoncé or fret the Nets the same.


 And we all know that that young millionaire isn’t really a loser. But it makes us feel good to yell it anyway.


 “Ya bum!”

 
  Follow @
 
 
  
   nytimesphoto
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   @johnleland
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  on Twitter. You can also find us on
 
 
  
   Facebook
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   Instagram
  
 
 
  .
 

 John Leland, a Metro reporter, joined The Times in 2000. His most recent book is “Happiness Is a Choice You Make: Lessons From a Year Among the Oldest Old,” based on a Times series.
 
  
   
    @
   
   johnleland
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 The high-profile partnership was announced on Thursday.


 By
 
 
  
   Jonah Engel Bromwich
  
 
 and
 
  
   Vanessa Friedman
  
 

 After Kanye and Adidas, and Rihanna and Puma; after Questlove and Nike, and Kendrick Lamar and Reebok, it was only a matter of time. And on Thursday, the first lady of Everything, Beyoncé Knowles, entered the sneaker wars.


 Adidas announced that it would collaborate with Ms. Knowles on several endeavors, including a signature collection with Adidas and an expansion of the singer’s active-wear brand, Ivy Park. She will be a creative partner at Adidas.


 In a statement, Ms. Knowles called the coming collaboration the “partnership of a lifetime” and touted a shared philosophy “that puts creativity, growth and social responsibility at the forefront of business.”


 The pop star and entrepreneur will retain ownership of Ivy Park, which was introduced in 2016 in partnership with Topshop and sells comfort wear and athleisure at retailers including Nordstrom. In 2018, Ms. Knowles acquired full ownership of the company after Sir Philip Green, Topshop’s owner,
 
  was accused of racial abuse and sexual harassment
 
 .

 Little financial information about Ivy Park is available, and it is unclear how successful the brand has been. It was
 
  immediately popular
 
 upon its release in 2016. On Thursday, its website had been altered to broadcast the Adidas partnership.


 The Beyoncé/Adidas collaboration is perhaps the most notable partnership between a superstar and a sports brand yet, and it indicates the consumer and social power that can be derived from such cross-branding. It is also a tribute to the lane Rihanna paved in 2014 when she became
 
  a creative director and global ambassador at Puma
 
 , back when it was still a novel idea that an entertainer might lend her name to a company best known for athletic apparel. (Rihanna parted ways with Puma and is now said to be
 
  working with LVMH
 
 on her own luxury brand.)


 Championing women and girls has become a key part of Adidas’s public relations strategy. This month, the company announced a new phase of its “She Breaks Barriers” initiative, which highlights the lack of equal media coverage for women’s sports in the United States.


 Ms. Knowles
 
  has positioned herself as a political voice for black Americans
 
 and for women, including through her musical examination of her marriage and her 2018 Coachella performance, which gave a platform to historically black colleges. She will amplify these messages, and those Adidas has already pushed, by giving the company her imprimatur.


 “Beyoncé is an iconic creator but also a proven business leader, and together, we have the ability to inspire change and empower the next generation of creators,” said Eric Liedtke, a member of the executive board of Adidas AG.

 Adidas’s “multilayered” partnership with Ms. Knowles will include a program whose resources will be given over to “the next generation of athletes, creators and leaders.”


 Last July, Forbes estimated that Ms. Knowles was
 
  worth $355 million
 
 , citing her most recent solo album, “Lemonade,” her million-dollar-grossing tour with her husband Jay-Z and the value of her stake in his streaming service, Tidal.

 Jonah Bromwich is based in New York. He writes for the Style section.
 
  
   
    @
   
   jonesieman
  
 

 Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.
 
  
   
    @
   
   VVFriedman
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 (Reuters) - Millennials' fondness for athleisure wear helped retailer JD Sports Fashion defy Britain's retail gloom and beat full-year earnings expectations on Tuesday.


 The group's expansion over the past year, with the purchase of U.S.-based Finish Line and smaller rival Footasylum, also bolstered annual profits, sending JD shares to a record high.


 Executive Chairman Peter Cowgill said Britain's biggest sportswear retailer had targeted millennials and Generation Z consumers - those born between the mid-1990s and the mid-2000s - who had driven the trend for athleisure, whereby gym clothes have become acceptable at work, school and on social occasions.


 "It (athleisure) is becoming far more seamless between sport and leisure, it is a cultural impact," Cowgill told Reuters in a phone interview after the company said headline pretax profit rose 15.5 percent to £355.2 million for its financial year ended Feb. 3.

 Britain's retail industry has been hit by weakening consumer spending amid uncertainty over Brexit, higher business costs and a shift to online shopping.


 JD, with more than 2,400 stores that sell brands including Nike, Puma and Adidas, has weathered the storm thanks to its international footprint and a strong online presence.


 That contrasts with rival Sports Direct, majority owned by billionaire Mike Ashley, who has recently failed in takeover attempts including for Debenhams and Findel.


 "JD is not immune to the widely reported challenges to physical retail in the UK with lower footfall on many high streets, malls and retail parks combined with cost challenges," JD Sports said in its results statement.


 Still, the owner of Footpatrol and Cloggs did not cut prices over the Christmas period even as other retailers scrambled to attract shoppers through heavy discounts.

 CHUNKY SHOES


 Cowgill said JD had also benefited from a trend towards more chunky footwear, particularly among women.


 Chunky shoes, once considered "dad sneakers", have gained popularity recently after celebrity entrepreneur Kylie Jenner sported them last year in collaboration with Adidas.


 JD, which was founded in 1981 with a single store in the northwest of England, reported a 6 percent rise in total like-for-like sales for its financial year through February.


 Its shares rose as much as 3.3 percent after the results to a record high of 550 pence. Pretax profit beat a company-supplied analysts' forecast of £349.2 million.


 "It's hard to think of such an impressive showing anywhere else in retail and JD's LFL (like-for-like) sales growth and profit delivery is stellar," said Peel Hunt, calling the stock "a clear buy".


 Asked if JD had seen any signs of a dip in customer behaviour or spending, Cowgill said "none whatsoever, in fact it has become more positive."


 Graphic - JD Sports overtakes Sports Direct as expansion efforts pay off: https://tmsnrt.rs/2VLI8e5


 (Reporting by Muvija M in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr and Susan Fenton)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 
  Guillermo del Toro’s “Hellboy” airs on Syfy ahead of the series’ imminent reboot. And a zombie spinoff hits Netflix.
 


 
  HELLBOY
 
 (2004)
 
  8:30 p.m. on Syfy.
 
 Hellboy, the cigar-chomping, lobster-colored satanic superhero born of
 
  Mike Mignola
 
 ’s
 
  comics
 
 in the 1990s, was brought to larger audiences by this Guillermo del Toro-directed romp. Wittier and infused with a sweeter disposition than the average big-screen comic book adaptation — though still plenty violent — del Toro’s movie casts Ron Perlman (“Sons of Anarchy”) as the title character, a demon with a devil tail whose origins involve both Grigori Rasputin and an interdimensional portal built by Nazis. (It’s complicated.) He winds up working for a government agency (secret, naturally) that defends against paranormal threats. His fellow agents there include an amphibious man played by Doug Jones (who would later
 
  play another fish-man
 
 in del Toro’s
 
  “The Shape of Water”
 
 ) and a woman with pyrotechnic abilities (Selma Blair). In
 
  his review for The New York Times
 
 , Elvis Mitchell wrote that del Toro “lets loose with an all-American, vaudevillian rambunctiousness that makes the movie daffy, loose and lovable.” It will be interesting to see what the director Neil Marshall brings to the series when
 
  his reboot
 
 , also called “Hellboy,” hits theaters on Friday.


 
  35 SHOTS OF RUM
 
 (2009)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Fandor
  
 
 
  .
 
 The French filmmaker Claire Denis, whose
 
  “High Life”
 
 has a spaceship-dwelling Robert Pattinson currently brooding on the big screens, turned her attention to more terrestrial concerns in this slow-burner. The movie centers on Lionel (Alex Descas), a widower who operates commuter rail cars for a living, and Joséphine (Mati Diop), his university student daughter. The pair live together in a non-central Paris neighborhood, going through quiet routines that get rocked slightly by the romantic attentions of a pair of neighbors, Gabrielle (Nicole Dogue) and Noé (Grégoire Colin). While a slow separation between father and daughter is the film’s clearest focus, A. O. Scott wrote in
 
  his review for The Times
 
 that “its real drama is in quiet moments, in glances and whispers captured by Agnès Godard’s exquisite and expressive cinematography.”

 
  TYREL
 
 (2018)
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Hulu
  
 
 
  ; Rent on
 
 
  
   Amazon
  
 
 
  ,
 
 
  
   iTune
  
 
 
  s,
 
 
  
   Vudu
  
 
 
  and
 
 
  
   YouTube
  
 
 
  .
 
 Jason Mitchell plays the odd man out on a nightmarish retreat to the Catskills in this comedy-drama. What was supposed to be an innocuous birthday party for a friend of a friend turns into something more sinister, thanks in part to the fact that the flock of partyers are young white men whose drunk antics do little to help Tyler (who is black) feel like anything other than an outsider. Michael Cera arrives late in the movie, as a rich kid with a Trump piñata.

 
  BLACK SUMMER
 
 
  Stream on
 
 
  
   Netflix
  
 
 
  .
 
 Syfy’s
 
  not-entirely-serious zombie apocalypse series
 
 “Z Nation” gets the spinoff treatment here, in the form of an eight-episode story of a mother (Jaime King) traversing the plains of zombie-land in search of her missing daughter. Assuming that it follows the lead of its mother series, expect tongue-in-decomposed-cheek action.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Reuters
 

 NEW YORK — If an overflowing inbox is killing your productivity at the office, you are not alone.


 Well, maybe you are, but not in the way you think.


 A recent survey of more than 2,000 managers and employees in 10 different countries found that employees increasingly depend on technology to communicate with their colleagues, including email (45 percent), text messaging (15 percent) and instant messaging (12 percent).


 Of those who cited email, more than 40 percent said they felt lonely always or often, were not engaged and had a high need for social connection.


 Dan Schawbel, author of "Back to Human: How Great Leaders Create Connection in the Age of Isolation," offered Reuters these tips on working remotely, managing technology and building a collaborative workplace.

 Q. Is there a dark side of working remotely?


 A. One-third of workers in the U.S. often work remotely. The number of remote workers is up 115 percent in the past decade. But just 5 percent of these workers see themselves staying at the same company for their entire career.


 While we want flexibility so much, there is a tradeoff. Our research shows that remote workers are more likely to quit because of loneliness as well as low engagement. The reason why (co-working space) WeWork exists is because people want the human connection. Otherwise, people would just work from home.


 Q. Is there a "right way" to work offsite and keep remote workers engaged?


 A. These employees will work harder if they have a sense of connection. For managers, it is important to let a remote worker lead the meeting. It's so simple and brilliant at the same time. It also makes sense to fly remote workers in once a year for an offsite or social event.


 And be sure to use video conferencing often for meetings - you get to see and hear someone, which is much better than an email. It also forces you to dress like you are in the office. If you dress the part, you act the part.


 Q. How can we maximize our time when we are in the office?


 A. When you are working, you need time to focus, think deeply and pay attention to your words, thoughts and ideas. You also need collaborative time to share those ideas.

 The actual work is important. But it's also crucial to cultivate friendships. The workplace survey I led, which was conducted by my company Future Workplace, an HR advisory firm, and Virgin Pulse, a digital health company, found that 7 percent of all employees globally have no friends at work and over half have five or fewer total friends.


 The majority of people (60 percent) said they would be more likely stay with their company longer if they had more friends.


 This was especially true for younger employees. Gen Z (74 percent) and millennials (69 percent) say they would be inclined to stay with their company longer if they had more friends than Gen X (59 percent) and baby boomers (40 percent).


 You will never be able to replace face-to-face interactions at work. Once you are in a room - at a meeting, event, or even celebrating a birthday at work - be present. Put down your phone and actually talk to people.


 Q. People spend so much time at work. What is the best way to avoid burnout?


 A. Even if you love your job, everyone needs a break. That is why some interesting things are happening around the world to combat burnout. For example, in Finland and in the United Kingdom, they are looking at a four-day work week. In France, you actually have the right to disconnect - workers there don't have to answer email on the weekends or after work hours.


 In Japan, every Japanese citizen gets the right to take Monday mornings off.


 Overall, it is about what you do, and who you do it with. The people you choose to work with are more important than the work you do. Even if you love your work, and it gives you purpose, toxic co-workers will make it unbearable.


 (Editing by Beth Pinkser and Bernadette Baum)

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 DAILY CROSSWORD COLUMN


 Debbie Ellerin’s puzzle comes with protagonists, antagonists, and maybe some agony.


 By
 
 
  
   Caitlin Lovinger
  
 

 
  SATURDAY PUZZLE
 
 — Today’s grid by Debbie Ellerin is a really fun variation on the standard “challenging themeless with obscure pop culture references and names everywhere you look.” A lot of today’s references are loose and imaginative, more archetypal than specific — this made it a fast solve for me, but quite gratifying, without the mild irritant of a minor celebrity that I’m supposed to feel uncool for not knowing.


 I know, I know, the grid did have some persnickety names — ONEAL, IVAN, URBAN and REN should be the lot of them — but I don’t think any of them created a sticking point. (AZIZ and UZO, maybe? The Z’s helped me there.) Hopefully everyone appreciated the inclusion of today’s seed entry, NOTORIOUS RBG, and the humor in the clues for HERO, LEI, HERB, PROFS and others.


 27A: This is an entry that rolls around every so often, but only in 21st century Times puzzles, which struck me as funny since BUSHWA
 
  dates to the 1920s
 
 , as far as I could tell. It might have been considered too spicy for inclusion back then as its root was in stronger language than “Nonsense,” but who knows. It might have come from “bourgeoisie” too, like the recent
 
  “bougie,”
 
 a word that hasn’t gotten into a grid yet, although I’m sure it’s trying.


 55A: I was mystified by this clue, which I solved on the crosses, and if I hadn’t looked it up for the post today I’d have assumed that “Sparks” was the name of a casino, which rhymes with RENO. That’s one of the more common ways to clue the third largest city in Nevada, Reno (“rhymes with”), but “Sparks” is actually the
 
  fifth
 
 largest city in Nevada and it is indeed right next to Reno, so there’s my American factoid du jour, I guess.

 60A: In contrast to BUSHWA, GONZO has a super-specific etymology, a coinage of one journalist,
 
  Bill Cardoso
 
 , referring to another, Hunter S. Thompson. From a constructor’s point of view, both of these words must be terrifically useful because of their vowelly endings as much as their appeal to the solver (or this solver, at any rate). Not knocking Hunter S. Thompson, but I always think of the Great Gonzo.

 2D: I didn’t know this acronym for Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity and Respiration — Apgar — used to check a
 
  brand-new baby’s stats
 
 and immediate health. Another clue that’s appeared only in recent puzzles, although the assessment itself dates back to 1952.


 16D: Cornhole isn’t a game I played as a city kid, nor did I know that there is an
 
  American Cornhole Association
 
 with tournaments (including one in Boston). I thought it was sort of a whack-a-mole (club-a-cob?) type thing, but you have to throw a BEAN BAG.


 41D: If I’d gotten EVIL QUEEN this would have been easy, I think, but I racked my brain a bit trying to come up with some form of identification, proof of citizenship, residence or another hoop that a voter has to jump through — not the requirements to hold elections in the first place, which are QUORUMS.

 52D: This and its neighbor are neat double clues that reference yesterday and today, you could say. “Film site” can refer to a url, like IMDB.com — that’s today, of course — or it can be a location where film is found, wound around a REEL, assuming that you’re not talking digital. A nice corner touch, I thought.


 I am happy to have my third puzzle in The New York Times. I wrote this puzzle after seeing the documentary “RBG.” I am glad to debut her nickname, NOTORIOUS RBG.


 Other answers I like are EVIL QUEEN, DREAM TEAM, KOREAN AIR and the talented actress UZO Aduba.


 My least favorite answer is LEO IV, but a 5-letter word ending in V did not have many good alternatives. Sorry about that one.


 Enjoy your Saturday!

 Subscribers can
 
  take a peek at the answer key
 
 .


 Trying to get back to the puzzle page?
 
  Right here
 
 .


 What did you think?

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Streaming Movie Review


 By
 
 
  
   Aisha Harris
  
 

 About midway through Beyoncé’s
 
  performance at Coachella
 
 last year, the booming, disembodied voice of the motivational ad-libber DJ Khaled proclaimed that, henceforth, the music festival would be known as “Beychella.”


 Unlike almost everything else Khaled pronounces in his music and on social media, the statement hardly felt hyperbolic: This was a career-defining performance for Beyoncé, who became the first black woman to headline the festival since its debut in 1999. For nearly two hours, she and an astounding cast of dancers, singers and musicians wove together a beloved, unparalleled collection of hits and deep cuts, interpolated with music from the “Dirty South” and civil rights activists like Nina Simone — served against the
 
  visuals and iconography
 
 of historically black colleges and universities.


 A year later, as the second weekend of Coachella approaches, the memory of Beychella looms large; no accumulation of
 
  star-studded guest appearances
 
 or
 
  secret movie reveals
 
 in the desert from this year’s lineup can gin up the same excitement. Which is what makes the Wednesday release of the Netflix documentary “
 
  Homecoming
 
 ” — accompanied by the
 
  surprise release of a
  
  
  corresponding live album
 
 — even more of a coup. She may not be headlining this year, but we’re all going to pay attention and bow down anyway.

 At almost 140 minutes, the majority of “Homecoming” is what many viewers have already seen (and, perhaps, seen again and again) this time through a greater variety of angles and Instagram-like filters. The performances from the first and second weekends (denoted by the differing color schemes and costume choices) are seamlessly intercut; this technique is particularly effective early on, when the performer’s outfits shift from all-yellow (Weekend 1) to all-pink (Weekend 2), just as “Crazy in Love” drops an infectious sample of Juvenile’s “Back That Thang Up.”

 The “intimate” and “candid” moments touted by Netflix are brief in comparison, appearing between long, uninterrupted musical segments from the show. Those moments will be enough to satisfy the overzealous Beyhive (though what Beyoncé-related content
 
  doesn’t
 
 satisfy the Beyhive?) and probably more casual fans and admirers, too. Montages reveal footage of the rehearsal process; performers practice, smile, make funny faces at the camera, gush about the experience of working on such a momentous event with perhaps the biggest star in the world. There are cameos from Jay-Z and their eldest daughter, Blue Ivy, who sings “Lift Every Voice and Sing.”


 
  [
 
 
  
   Read the 5 things we learned from “Homecoming” about Beyoncé’s Coachella triumph.
  
 
 
  ]
 


 There’s Beyoncé, in voice-over (which is mostly how we hear her voice in these segments), talking about trying to balance family and getting in shape after the birth of her twins. (Her diet, which she describes as no bread, carbs, dairy, sugar, meat, fish or alcohol … sounds extreme and not at all fun.)


 As with the film “
 
  Lemonade
 
 ,” which included a Malcolm X audio clip, the singer puts herself directly in conversation with voices from black American history. The sage words of Maya Angelou, Audre Lorde, W.E.B. DuBois, Toni Morrison and others sprinkle “Homecoming” with inspiration. The overarching theme here is ostensibly education: Beyoncé schools her audience on the beauty of black culture, yes, but also on the importance of preserving and encouraging the legacy of historically black colleges and universities, which she stresses throughout the film.

 Above all, “Homecoming” is about Beyoncé, who served as the writer, director and an executive producer, asserting, yet again, her power and control. In part because of preconceived notions about what it means to be a pop star and a black woman, questions around her claims to authorship of her own music and image have always lingered closely behind. It doesn’t help that she has usually chosen to let the work speak for itself, avoiding interviews that rise above
 
  surface-level promotion
 
 — not a bad thing for an artist to do, to be sure, though it allows plenty of room for doubters to deny her credit.


 
  [
 
 
  
   Read about Beyoncé’s surprise live album here.
  
 
 
  ]
 


 “Homecoming” reinforces the idea that Beyoncé the performer is also Beyoncé the creator. In voice-over, she speaks of the weeks spent in preparation. In footage, she oversees the music and dance rehearsals and advises on the visuals. At one point, she politely but forcefully communicates to her team that she’s not getting what she wants — it’s “janky” and “not translating,” she says, bluntly.


 It’s Beyoncé exactly as she wants us to see her and has always wanted us to see her: as a perfectionist, and as the hardest-working person in show business. “I definitely pushed myself further than I knew I could,” she says, as we watch footage of her sweating it out profusely.


 “I will never, never push myself that far again,” she adds, with a chuckle: a chuckle that suggests Beyoncé — who, two decades in, keeps finding new ways to set the bar higher — can’t convince even herself that such a thing could possibly be true.

 Homecoming
 
 Not rated. Running time: 2 hours 17 minutes.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Catacombs, famous headstones and a place to deposit secrets. “What is this?” he said. “The gates of Hell?”


 By
 
 
  Ben Detrick
 

 “
 
 It’s
 
 not as scary as I thought it was going to be, as far as graveyards,” said Juice WRLD, the 20-year-old rapper from Chicago. He was visiting Green-Wood cemetery, the 478-acre burial ground in the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn.


 It was a bright and gusty April afternoon, but the spirits guided him correctly: The pastoral resting place of Boss Tweed, Bill the Butcher, Leonard Bernstein and Jean-Michel Basquiat is more a destination for picnickers than horror buffs.


 “Damn near too much to take in, you almost gotta close your eyes,” Juice WRLD said cheerfully. “It’s so dead, it’s alive.”

 He had arrived at Green-Wood with two friends and a record label publicist in a black 15-seat Mercedes-Benz Sprinter. He was in New York to promote his second album, “Death Race for Love,” which debuted
 
  atop the Billboard 200 chart
 
 and has remained among the Top 5 since March 8.

 The whirlwind tour included a Spotify event at the Brooklyn Museum in which life-size statues of him, Cardi B, Gunna and Jaden Smith were unveiled for temporary display; an appearance on
 
  “The Tonight Show”
 
 ; and shopping at
 
  Flight Club
 
 , a consignment sneaker store in Greenwich Village.


 A detour at a Victorian cemetery seemed an appropriate setting for a fast-rising star with goth-leaning inclinations in both his music and style. “It’s an interesting subject,” Juice WRLD said of death. “It’s an enigma.”


 Led by a pair of Green-Wood staffers, they trudged up a stone path that slipped between pale crucifixes, weathered tombstones and birches the color of palomino horses. Juice WRLD’s pink camouflage jacket and fuchsia Palm Angels hoodie were bubble gum bursts in a hillscape of matted grass and leafless trees.


 He was good-natured and chatty. “This brings back memories, walking with you,” he said to Ty Fairconeture,
 
 whom he called his brother.

 The group paused to snap photos of the Statue of Liberty, a puny figure beyond the Gowanus Bay. Nearby was a marble obelisk with a narrow, mailbox-like slit. Made by Sophie Calle, a French artist, and commissioned by
 
  Creative Time
 
 in 2017, the artwork encourages visitors to write down secrets and deposit them into a subterranean chamber that will be sealed for 25 years.

 Juice WRLD was handed a pen and a scrap of yellow paper. He wrote intently for several minutes and slipped his note through the slot: ‘It’s too juicy for the music,” he said of his secret. “It has to go underground.”


 One of his pals asked if he had signed it. “I did on purpose, after you told me not to,” he said. “They’re going to look at it, ‘Juice WRLD was here?’”


 He already traffics in oversharing. His music is woozy, emotional goo, a disgorgement of heartbreak, boastfulness and drugged-out memento mori that reflects influences as disparate as rappers like Chief Keef and Drake, and early 2000s rock bands like Fall Out Boy and Escape the Fate.


 In Gen Z fashion, he was first exposed to diverse sounds by the video game Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 3 and learned keyboard chords through YouTube tutorials.

 The atmospherics at Green-Wood were an easy segue into discussing the morbid bent of his music.


 “I talk about stuff like that because those are subjects that people are a) too scared to touch on, or b) don’t do it the right way where people can learn from your mistakes,” he said. “I cherish every mini-second of this life.”


 Next up was a frigid, manicotti-shaped structure: catacombs built in the 1850s for families who could not afford mausoleums of their own. Harry Weil, the director of public programming at Green-Wood, unlocked the imposing iron gates.

 “What is this?” Juice WRLD said. “The gates of Hell? If it’s meant for me to go out like this. …” He trailed off.


 Everyone in the caravan ducked out of the way as he recorded an Instagram story for his
 
  six million followers
 
 . It showed him entering the catacombs, and it included a coffin emoji.


 Inside the dark tube, which is illuminated by skylights, he and his friends weighed bets on spending the night in small vaults that housed up to a dozen corpses. “Anything touch me, I’m running,” someone muttered.

 After 20 minutes in the catacombs, it was time to visit the grave of Basquiat, the Brooklyn-born artist who died in 1988. Everyone piled out of the Sprinter and walked in the direction of Basquiat’s nondescript headstone, a popular attraction that was festooned with flowers.


 Juice WRLD stayed in the vehicle, ostensibly to charge his Juul vape pen. “I’m going to get out in 45 seconds,” he said.


 He did not. A few minutes later, he said he was suffering from a stomachache.
 
 “I didn’t know he died from a heroin overdose,” he said of Basquiat. “His art makes so much more sense to me. I look at him like I look at ’Pac” — referring to Tupac Shakur — “I’m not the biggest ’Pac fan, but I admire their work greatly.”


 Juice WRLD, who was born Jarad Higgins, raps frequently about drug use, and, considering his oscillations between chipper acuity and heavy-lidded mumbling, it does not appear to be a stage persona. “When I was getting high at a young age, I’d be scared to tell people,” he said. “That wasn’t normal.”


 Did learning about Basquiat’s death trigger something uncomfortable in his sense of mortality? “
 
 Every now
 
 and then I have concerns,” he said, revealing that he planned on undergoing a detox in Los Angeles, where he lives. “But at the end of the day, I’ll be fine. I was put on this earth for a reason.”


 Soon the Sprinter was winding its way toward the Green-Wood gates and back to Manhattan. Juice WRLD plugged his phone into the stereo and played an untitled track that he had just recorded in the hotel. “When I die, put me in a tomb / That’s what zombies do,” he sang out.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By 16, she was traveling around the world behind the wheel of a Model T in a life of adventure that was interrupted only by a murder mystery.


 
  Overlooked is a series of obituaries about remarkable people whose deaths, beginning in 1851, went unreported in The Times.
 


 By
 
 
  Carrie Rickey
 

 The ad in The Paris Herald called for “a good-looking, brainy young woman” willing to “forswear skirts” and “rough it” in Asia and Africa for an unspecified expedition.


 “Be prepared,” it said, “to learn to work before and behind a movie camera.” It was 1922.


 Idris Welsh, a 16-year-old student at a convent school in France who was crazy about movies, read the ad and was hooked.


 She applied and was given the job of mechanic in an ill-defined endeavor that involved filming a team’s travels as it motored around in 1917 Model Ts. At 6 feet tall, blond and attractive, Idris quickly became the face of the expedition, which captured her adventures in a series of movie travelogues.


 She clocked 380,000 miles in the 1920s, traversing six continents, often in places where paved roads were unknown. Newspapers called her “the Amelia Earhart of the open road.”

 She radiated star quality onscreen and electrified lecture audiences with her tales of the road
 
  .
 


 In all, she directed and appeared in 11 films, mostly in the ’20s and ’30s, which are now in the archives of the Library of Congress and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.


 “She was a true independent filmmaker,” said Mike Mashon, the curator of the library’s Moving Image Section. “She created and distributed her own films, presenting them on the lecture circuit, continually re-editing them throughout her career.”


 The leader of the expedition was Walter Wanderwell (born Valerian Johannes Pieczynski in Poland), a suave promoter with a checkered past that included a prison stint as a
 
 suspected
 
 German spy in the United States during World War I. He called himself the
 
 Captain
 
 .


 Like the man himself, the mission was infinitely changeable. Sometimes it was billed as an international car race, other times a peace mission on wheels.

 Regardless, the one constant of the Wanderwell Around the World Endurance Contest was to film its travels and earn revenue by showing the movies with an accompanying lecture. Many showmen had claimed to have traveled to far-flung places; the Wanderwell crew had the pictures to prove it.

 In preparation for the first trip, Idris took on her childhood nickname, Aloha, and tacked it onto the Captain’s surname. Aloha Wanderwell became her nom de route.


 On the team’s first trek, from 1922 to 1925, Wanderwell drove in the expedition’s parade of Fords from Nice, France, across Europe and then through Asia, from Mumbai to Kolkata on India’s broad shoulders, and then up to China. After entering the U.S.S.R. and making her way to Vladivostok in 1924, the Soviet Army named her an honorary colonel for “being the first demoiselle to pilot a motorcar to Siberia.”


 By the time of her next expedition, from Cape Town to Cairo in 1926,
 
  she had married the Captain.
 
 This time she helped him improvise. They used kerosene for gasoline, crushed bananas to grease the gears, and water and elephant fat for engine oil.


 Idris Welsh was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on Oct. 13, 1906, to Margaret and Robert Welsh and grew up in the town of Salmon Arm, in British Columbia. Her father died when she was 2. In 1909, her mother married Herbert Hall.


 To strains of ukulele music on the gramophone, the towheaded Idris often entertained her family by dancing the hula, happy as the center of attention.


 Novels by Joseph Conrad stoked her craving for adventure, and Screenland magazine fanned dreams of stardom.

 “Mary Pickford was her idol — she was movie-crazy all her life,” said Christian Fink-Jensen, who with Randolph Eustace-Walden wrote the biography “Aloha Wanderwell: The Border-Smashing, Record-Setting Life of The World’s Youngest Explorer” (2016).


 By 12, Idris had traveled unaccompanied by rail and oceanliner from her boarding school in Canada to England, to be with her mother after Hall was killed in World War I.


 They moved to Nice, and Idris, at 15, began taking driving lessons from a dashing war hero.


 In her unpublished memoir, “The Driving Passion,” she recalled her time in his cherry-red Peugeot, observing “how the confines of a car, its reassuring purr and motion, breeds an extraordinary sense of isolation, intimacy.”


 Itching for further adventure, she spotted the ad in The Paris Herald.


 With her mother’s permission, Idris joined the Wanderwell crew. Like everyone else in the unit, she dressed in a military jacket, jodhpurs and riding boots.


 Mordaunt Hall, a reviewer for The New York Times,
 
  didn’t think much of
 
 the Wanderwells’ first travelogue, “With Car and Camera Around the World” (1929), writing, “The film, for the most part, is exactly what a majority of tourists would take with a motion-picture camera.”


 But she evolved as a filmmaker, focusing more on editing, said Jess DePrest, a doctoral student at the University of California, Los Angeles, who is writing a dissertation on Wanderwell and early female travelogue filmmakers.


 Famously, in 1931, Wanderwell and the Captain traveled to Bahia, Brazil, to search for the explorer Percy Fawcett, who had vanished while looking for the supposed Lost City of Z. (They left their son and daughter in the care of Wanderwell’s mother, in foster homes, and later with her half sister, Miki.)

 The Wanderwells did not find Fawcett, but they did return with footage that they used in their one theatrically released sound film, “
 
  River of Death
 
 .”

 After the Brazil expedition, the Wanderwells returned to Los Angeles but had grown estranged. Wanderwell lived downtown, editing “River of Death.”


 The Captain, a lifelong philanderer and suspected rumrunner during Prohibition, lived on a schooner, named Carma, 28 miles south in Long Beach. He hoped to repair it and sail it to Tahiti.


 On the night of Dec. 5, 1932, the Captain was on the schooner with his sleeping children when a stranger wearing a long gray coat boarded and asked to see him. A group of would-be passengers who were waiting for the boat to sail directed the man to the room where the Captain consulted maps. Soon after, the passengers heard shots. Some ran onto the fogbound deck, looking for the stranger. Others found Wanderwell slumped against a banquette, fatally shot with a single bullet in his back.


 “Globe-Girdling Husband of Winnipeg Woman Found Dead” read a headline in The Winnipeg Free Press the next morning.


 William Guy, a disgruntled employee who had worked for the Wanderwells in South America, was charged with the murder but acquitted. The crime remains unsolved.

 “The list of possible killers with a motive would have made Agatha Christie’s head spin,” Eustace-Walden said. “It could have included husbands, boyfriends, jilted women, jilted business partners, an agent of a foreign power, rogue police, and Aloha herself.”


 As her husband might have done, Wanderwell used the publicity surrounding the Captain’s death to promote “River of Death.”


 In 1933 she married a gas station attendant named Walter Baker and
 
  traveled to India
 
 and Australia with him, making movies for much of the 1930s.


 They celebrated their 60th anniversary two years before his death, in 1995. She died the next year, at 89.


 In 1980, when she was 74, Wanderwell gave her last known lecture and screening, at the Museum of Natural History in Los Angeles.


 She asked audience members how they traveled. By car and plane, they answered.


 And then she dazzled them with movie clips of her travels by car before superhighways existed, and by plane when commercial airlines were in their infancy.

 An earlier version of this obituary misstated Mike Mashon's title. He is the curator of the Moving Image Section of the Library of Congress, not the former curator. It also misstated the location of Salmon Arm. It is located in the interior of British Columbia, not on Vancouver Island.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Current Events Conversation
 


 By
 
 
  The Learning Network
 

 In this week’s edition of Current Events Conversation, we bring you student responses to three very different
 
  writing prompts
 
 . Curious what teenagers think about a controversial mural at a San Francisco High School? Or about their thoughts on how senior year should be spent? Or about their creative stories about a 17-foot python found in Florida? Keep reading.


 But, before you get to the comments, we want to give a special shout out to students from the
 
  Julia Reynolds Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School in Philadelphia
 
 who have commented on our prompts every week this school year. For the past few weeks — and this week in particular — they have stepped up their writing game by replying to students from other schools and their own. Because these are the kinds of conversations we love to read, we’ve highlighted many of their excellent exchanges in our roundup below.


 Thank you to all the students who have written on our site this week and welcome to students from three new schools:
 
  Glen Burnie, Md.
 
 ;
 
  Midland School, Los Olivos, Calif.
 
 ; and
 
  Quaker Valley, Pa.
 


 Next week our Currents Events Conversation will be taking a short break. We’ll be back on May 2 for a new roundup or student comments, with two week’s-worth of student writing. See you then!

 
  Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear as they were originally submitted.
 


 
  __________
 


 This week,
 
  we asked students to weigh in
 
 on a debate brewing at
 
  George Washington High School in San Francisco
 
 : Should a series of Depression-era murals that depict the life of George Washington — including images of enslaved people and a dead Native American — remain in the school? Does their historic and cultural value mean they should stay? Or does the reality that some members of the community find the paintings to be offensive, dehumanizing and inappropriate for a high school take precedence?


 Students argued their positions passionately. But what we appreciated most about their responses was that they were interacting with one another. We saw many students replying to and recommending each other’s comments — acknowledging when someone made a good point, adding their own ideas and asking each other tough questions. Below, we highlight some of the best exchanges we read.


 
  Facing an ugly history — and the trauma that comes with it
 


 I believe the George Washington High school should be proud to have these murals. They may be a little dated, however, I believe that having this history remain with the youth of today is as important as ever … The murals show our history, which was ugly, which is true, but needs to never be forgotten, in fear of it happening again.

 I believe the school should not paint over it the murals, but instead have a plaque explaining the history behind these photos. Example, “This picture explains how, though he was a valiant general, George also kept slaves …” or “ this dead native american shows the hardships the natives have faces and still face to this very day from the white people.” I think the murals should stay, and continues to show our ugly but very true american history.


 —
 
  George Siokos, Masterman Philadelphia
 


 @George Siokos George, but is it worth having to walk under murals of dead kin everyday. Is it worth being reminded everyday that your ancestors were not even considered human. I respect your opinion, but I believe that history can be taught without bringing people’s self esteem down.


 —
 
  Tino K., Masterman Philadelphia
 


 @George Siokos I think you make a very fair point that these are pieces of history and they definitely had a lot of effort put into them, and that is something that should not be overlooked. This is a very hard question, and I can definitely see how one could take either side. You certainly shouldn’t just get rid of something that someone put a lot of work into, especially if it is historically valuable, but is that really more important than making students feel safe and not discriminated against at school, which is supposed to be one of the safest places in a kid’s life? It would be nice if there were a compromise, a way to preserve the art while also upholding students’ self confidence. Of course, you’re certainly entitled to your own opinion, but in the end, I feel that it is more important that all students feel equal than it is to save paintings that degrade certain racial groups.


 —
 
  Sivan Frankel, Masterman School, Philadelphia, PA
 


 @George Siokos I totally agree. Even though these murals can be offensive, they express a part of our history. They shouldn’t be destroyed.


 —
 
  Kaya Perelman, Masterman, Philadelphia
 

 I think that the murals should get taken down if people are actually getting offended. Some people might say that kids need to learn about these events, which is true. But they can just learn about them in class. If nobody cared about the murals the if would be different because no one would be harmed by them. But people are feeling dehumanized by the murals and that’s not right. So I think that since people really care about these murals and are offended by them then they should be gotten rid of.


 —
 
  Sabrina Mintz, Masterman, Philadelphia
 


 @Sabrina Mintz While I agree they should be taught about in class, they can’t be taught and forgotten about, the events need to be acknowledged and remembered. History is history and it cannot be changed, the best we can do today is learn from them and that’s a reason the murals should stay, it’s so we can remember the events and not repeat them.


 —
 
  Benjamin Chiem, J.R. Masterman - Philadelphia, PA
 


 @Sabrina Mintz I also agree, the murals are still a part of history no matter how the events are described. It’s better to learn about history, compared to just hiding from it and trying to forget about it. People need to be aware of how it used to be, and how far we’ve gotten in our present time.


 —
 
  Benga Oni, JR Masterman, Philadelphia PA
 

 I think that the murals should stay in the high schools because the past is the past and there is nothing we can do about it. Not all of history is good, and we need to learn how to accept that. Of course some of these murals may not honor or have a positive purpose, but history was not smooth and either should these murals be. If the artist wanted to create something that depicts a darker time in history, so be it. We cannot sugar coat the past, for it happened.


 —
 
  Sophia, Masterman
 


 @Sophia It’s not about changing the past … We are still taught history in our classes after all. I think we should view the situation through scientific point of view. For example, if we just accepted the murals even if people found this offensive, would not this be evolutionary stasis? We wouldn’t evolve or gain anything by acceptance which would leave us in stasis. However, if were to remove the murals, we would evolve in a way of intelligence. We would be more intolerant of racism and the such.


 Yeah it seems small to remove one mural, but what about the kids who go that school? It probably would affect them to some degree at least. Remember the Galapagos islands? It was only one minor change; a drought. To the world, this drought in the Galapagos was nothing. However, to the finches living there, it sure was a big deal!


 … Humans are no longer primitive anymore. I don’t think we are dealing with issues of physical evolution anymore, but instead evolution regarding intelligence.


 —
 
  G Jap, Masterman School, Philadelphia PA
 

 
  A symbol of resilience
 


 For me, The murals remain us a part of the history and help us to be stronger. That remind us to understand how difficult it was for the ancestors to g fought to enjoy the privilege. Together we are strong.


 —
 
  Dorrotie 3A, YC CLIP
 


 @Dorrotie 3A I agree with you all the way because history makes up what we are now and does make us stronger. True statement.


 —
 
  Teddy Santos, Julia R. Masterman
 

 
  Remembering the past to face the future
 


 In my opinion, if something happened, there is no point in trying to cover it up under the wraps of time. For example, in the case of the murals, George Washington did fight in (what I believe to be) the 7 Years War, and did command Native Americans, who were, at the time, employed by both the British and French forces. Also, George Washington did own slaves, as did many of his contemporaries, it was just a product of the times.


 A good example of why we should not try to shield past blemishes from the people of the youth is the Armenian genocide of 1915 to 1917. Adolf Hitler used the reasoning that, if no one remembered the Armenian Genocide, (which they hadn’t) no one will remember the Holocaust. He said “After all, who today remembers the genocide of the Armenians?” All in all, those are my thoughts on why we should not try to get rid of the mistakes of the past, because if we do, history is bound to repeat itself.


 —
 
  Jonah A., Masterman School
 


 @Jonah A.This is a wonderful comment


 —
 
  Hank, Philadelphia, PA
 


 @Jonah A. I agree with how you related the Armenian genocide and the Holocaust to this issue. As with both genocides, genocides with these natives should not be forgotten, and it being placed on the walls of the high school, should not be removed to never forget what early Americans did to natives.


 —
 
  George Siokos, Masterman Philadelphia
 


 @Jonah A. I strongly agree. The past isn’t something we should hide and keep in the shadows. It is something we should always pay attention to and grow from. Without knowledge of historical events, we may repeat the same mistakes, which wouldn’t have a great result on the later future


 —
 
  Abibat Lateef, Julia R. Masterman
 


 @Jonah A. Well written, and great background. I definitely agree about not covering up our history, because why hide what has already been shown?


 —
 
  Naiima Jabati, Julia R. Masterman, Philadelphia
 

 
  Do these murals belong in a school?
 


 I feel like it really does matter that these murals are in high school. We are intended to learn a lot in high school so if we do see murals that depict such bad actions then the students will be influenced more than they are already. As a student i understand that our minds are still developing and very easily manipulated. If these murals would be anywhere else like in a government office building, hospital or a courthouse the adults that are in those places already know right from wrong, they already have a formed opinion of their own. Unlike the teenagers that walk the halls of this school.


 —
 
  Ciarah Torres, Iuka Mississippi
 


 @Ciarah Torres I agree for the most part, but I believe that if these murals are thought of as offensive it doesn’t matter where they are. I also believe that it doesn’t matter what your age is, you can still be manipulated or convinced of something if you’re exposed to it enough. Besides these minor details I agree with your comment.


 —
 
  Samuel Hamilton, Masterman
 

 Having these types of murals in a school might be a little harsh especially because teenagers are just developing. Instead of just having a mural, it would be nice to have a little excerpt somewhere explaining what is happening in the mural. During history, students should learn about the murals, too and discuss their views.
 


 —
 
  Jessica H., J.R. Masterman School, Philadelphia, PA
 


 @Jessica H. I agree with you. We should not try to cover up history’s mistakes. We should try to learn from them.


 —
 
  Justin T. Liu, Masterman; in Philly
 


 @Jessica H. I totally agree. We can’t just ignore these things, no matter how hard they are to accept. Also, having extra information about the murals is an excellent idea. It is important for the students to understand what they are seeing and why it was created.


 —
 
  Anya Finlay, Masterman- Philadelphia, PA
 

 
  Learning about the good and bad parts of history
 


 I recommend that the school remove the murals from the school. I think they should paint a new mural showing different aspects of George Washington’s life that aren’t as offensive.


 —
 
  Christian, Walla Walla High School
 


 @Christian I can see where you are going and it is a good line of thinking yet it still honors George Washington, and to honor a person you must honor them entirely in all that they have done, don’t you agree? Really, in my opinion, it would just end up with the same result as Washington was a slave owner and a man who oppressed many people and you can’t really ignore that. Still, your point is valid as the murals depict a cruel and offensive part of Washington’s life and evoke emotions amongst the people who are members of the groups he oppressed so it makes sense to immediately want to get rid of it, yet history is history and it is important to acknowledge atrocities done by people whom we honor and revere.


 —
 
  Reza Chity-Guevara, Masterman, Philadelphia, PA
 


 @Christian I respect your opinion but if you want to glorify a person such as George Washington, you should know his entire personality/beliefs and what he did in his lifetime. By just showing the aspects of Washington’s life that cutting out how he harshly treated others, a false understanding of his personality can be interpreted with his heroic side showing only.


 —
 
  Hope A, Masterman, Philly
 

 I believe the murals should stay. There are few reasons for this. The first and most obvious one is that they have historical importance. They were painted a long time ago and lots of other buildings and art from the past are still being protected today. Another reason is that it is educational. Lots of teachers and textbooks make George Washington out to be a great person, but learning about the bad things he did is also very important because no one is perfect and we all have our mistakes. The final reason is that we shouldn’t sugarcoat history. No matter what happened, we should still learn about it. These murals are in a high school. They are for sure old enough to realize that this is what happened in the world. That’s why they should keep the murals.


 —
 
  Tierra G., Walla Walla, WA
 


 @Tierra G. I couldn’t stress that point enough. I agree with you when you say that these murals carry so much historical importance. This is such an important part of our history and we can’t just tear it down. The students need to be able to learn from these paintings and censoring the past won’t make it easier. Keeping these pictures up will help us from ever backtracking into our old ways.


 —
 
  Maeve McNichol, Masterman, Philadelphia, PA
 

 
  __________
 

 In “
 
  How to Cure the New Senioritis? Make Yourself Your Senior Project
 
 ,” Ned Johnson writes about the feeling students today have near the end of their senior year in high school — not freedom, but purposelessness. In our related
 
  Student Opinion question
 
 , we asked students if they felt this way, why and how their final semester of high school should be spent.


 Many of our readers agreed that high school can feel like a “four-year audition for the right college” and, once they’ve been accepted, they have nothing to do. We loved the suggestions they came up with for making their senior year more productive and meaningful.


 
  High school feels like a ‘four-year audition for the right college.’
 


 I would agree with the idea that high school seems to be just a prolonged entry-point to college. All of our education up to this point is, “It’ll be harder in [insert higher level here]”. We are told preschool is prep for elementary. Elementary is prep for middle school. Middle school into high school. And high school into college. The only difference is that the others are preordained. You will always get into the next school; only college is exclusive.


 However, our previous experience in the educational path, as well as pressures from teachers and authority figures in our life, push us into believing that we HAVE to get into college, and so we spend our entire high school career into putting together a good college resume, making sure our transcript will set us apart. And once all that prep has gotten us into a school, we have a good amount of time where, (like the author says) we’re purposeless. We have nothing to do.


 —
 
  Chris, Chicago, IL
 


 I agree that high school can seem like nothing but an entry point to college, and much of that is due to how schools push college to be the main motivation. My own school heavily pushes the idea of being college and career ready, which is better than some schools as it embraces that some students will not be pursuing a college education, but will instead be going directly in to the career field. While this is a step up from other schools, the main motivation that students are given to succeed often still is college, leaving many students with little motivation their freshman and sophomore years as I have seen many of my peers struggle to come back from grades from these periods as they begin focusing on college. High schools should motivate students not just for the end goal, but for the learning processes in between. High school is a highly developmental stage, and treating it as one and encouraging learning for experience and not just the end goal of college will be more beneficial to students.


 —
 
  Alexis, Florida
 


 
  ‘Senioritis’ is real.
 


 As a senior in high school myself it definitely feels like I have little control over what is happening in my life with the college process because I know nothing about it. A lot of adults also expect us to know what we want to do with our lives right now but I have no idea so that makes me feel even more unprepared, like I’m doing the process wrong. I feel as though the “senioritis” I experience is being so stressed out that I can’t do anything, all I can do is sit there. I think my high school has definitely prepared me academically for college yet I still feel unprepared because there is really no one teaching you how to handle and experience the college process.


 —
 
  Colby, Northbrook, IL
 


 In my opinion, second semester senior year has been the hardest part of my high school career, solely revolving around motivation to get to class. After being accepted to the college that I wanted to go to, I have started thinking that “there is no point in learning this new material”, other than to just pass the class and get out of here. I believe that there should be an option to get out of the classroom to go and spend time doing something that will actually help you in college, or something that focuses on your major.


 —
 
  Jayne, Northbrook, IL
 

 I’m a sophomore of high school, and I’m already showing symptoms of senioritis. I’ve been keeping up with a rigorous schedule since my first day of freshman year, and the burnout is real. It’s now that time of year that I choose my classes for junior year and hope that my choices will help me build an appealing transcript for colleges to judge me on. Looking at my class choices, it doesn’t look like I’ll be slowing down anytime soon when it comes down to academics and sports. It has me thinking what I’ll be doing during my senior year. Will I continue to pile up AP courses? Or will I dedicate some time to figure out myself and what I want to do? Ideally, I will be able to ease up during my second semester of senior year and work on volunteering, building relationships, and “recharging”, as the article mentions, before I begin my even-harder years at college.


 —
 
  Emma Coleman, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NC
 


 
  How to spend senior year? Celebrate and relax.
 


 Who can blame a group of seniors, who have worked so hard for three and a half years, for wanting a break? Now is the time to enjoy yourself and your accomplishments. While it is not traditional, schools should reward the hard work of their seniors, maybe even by encouraging time to relax and bask in the rewards of your hard work. After all, high school is over, and you reached your goals. That is something to celebrate!


 —
 
  Allison, Northbrook, Illinois
 


 I believe seniors should continue to challenge themselves if they would like but in the case it feels like just a complete waste of time; it might be better to direct their attention elsewhere. The second semester of senior year is the last time in our lives where we will truly be free. We still are living at home and having someone cook, clean, and pay for us. I really think the second semester of your senior year should be used to let loose and do the things you’ve always wanted to do before starting the next chapter of your life.


 —
 
  Leila Belfadil, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NC
 


 Giving yourself a break I think is very important to prepare for your coming year of college. You will be in a different atmosphere with different people and harder classes, so there is enough stress there already. I agree that “high school is merely a four-year audition for the right college,” because everything students devote their work to during high school, is for it to pay off in their future by getting them into the college of their choice. Just having a time period to relax and regroup would be more beneficial than continuing to stress throughout your senior year worrying about impressing your future college.


 —
 
  Alex Lee, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NC
 


 
  Learn about the real world.
 


 I think that in order to prepare a high school senior for college the first thing that must be done is to let them get a taste of what it’s like in the real world and to help them cope to that. To elaborate, I think that seniors should be given classes to help them plan for their future either in our out of college. I think they should be given classes that are designed to prepare them specifically for life ahead, not some arbitrary classes that won’t benefit them in the future. Classes like personal finance, accounting, and other similar classes should be made for the seniors to help them to develop skills they will need as soon as they become independent.


 —
 
  Ethan Pardieu, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NC
 


 There are so many kids that go off to college and just have absolutely no clue how to live everyday life. They may not know how to do laundry or cook their own food. I intend to learn a lot more about being self sufficient in the second semester of my senior year. Need to learn how to do taxes, look for insurance, learn how to rent an apartment, pay bills, manage money, ect. There are so many aspects of everyday life for adults that I have absolutely no clue how to approach and that I direly need to learn.


 —
 
  Quaid Sutherland, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NC
 


 I think for the end of senior year you should still be taking classes, but different types of classes. For example I am in Personal Finance currently and it is without a doubt the most important class I have ever taken to prepare me for life after high school. I’m not sure how kids can manage to be by themselves in the real world without taking Personal Finance. I think classes like those should be required for seniors at the end of their high school years. Classes that are about things that will have an affect on your every day life are what will be most beneficial to seniors as they prepare to be on their own.


 —
 
  Brennan McCauley, Hoggard High School, NC
 

 High school seems like an “audition” for college but not the real world per say. I do believe that high school does not fully prepare us for college sometimes. College is almost like a whole different world and I believe that senior year should kind of be rebuilt. For instance, plan field trips to colleges to observe a class that some students are planning to take, take more pride is work-based learning, teach seniors more real world stuff and not how to find the x, y, and z axis of a graph. (Unless that’s the field students would like to go into.) I believe that, although we have career pathways, we need to have resources to be better prepared for college.


 —
 
  Hailey, Georgia
 


 
  Or, take time to finally pursue your passions.
 


 The author’s right. Students need to stop thinking about what others want from them, and instead focus on what they themselves want. Why live a life you can’t live? Take a semester to relax. Pursue your passions. Find your calling. Unfortunately, it might just be your only chance.


 —
 
  Hoke Pollock, Hoggard High School, NC
 


 Senior year should be about finding what you like. Your interests and abilities should be put to the test, and your brain could finally have a break. Seniors just don’t care about learning anymore, so maybe a change of pace, like interning in the same career field they want to go into, would be a perfect substitute!


 —
 
  Aubree Brown, Locust Grove High School
 


 I agree with the author’s suggestion that senior year should kind of let students thing about their path and what they want to do in life. At Locust Grove, we have projects called capstones, which all seniors are required to do. They are student led projects that allow them to do something that they are passionate about. I think this a good opportunity for seniors, especially those who become disinterested and develop ¨senioritis¨ towards the end of the school year.


 —
 
  Jadyn B., LGHS
 


 
  __________
 


 In our Picture Prompt, “
 
  17-Foot Python
 
 ,” we asked students to write a story or poem inspired by the
 
  photograph above
 
 .


 We loved the creative liberty they took with this real-world story, creating back stories for the people pictured and imagining adrenaline-inducing plots for how this photo came to be. Read on to see what they wrote.

 
  Dark. Wet. Red. Bite. Scream. Shake. Run.
 


 Dark. The landscape was covered with it. Only a sliver of the sun could be seen on the horizon. I had to be careful with my steps.


 Wet. I attempt to bypass the swampier parts of the area. No matter how hard I tried, mud still managed to get in my boots. There goes another pair of socks.


 Red. I see the flag, marking were we planted the bait. Three down, one to go. Then I can go to sleep, or eat a real breakfast.


 Bite. I bend down to get a closer look at the trap. The bait’s completely gone. Only pieces of dead scales remain. So I guess it really is a big one.


 Scream. A bird’s early call rings through the air. I flinch.


 Shake. I shiver, just a little bit. I try to tell myself that it’s the cold but that wouldn’t make sense. I’m in the midst of Florida summer.


 Run. I’m getting impatient now. I see the last flag. I get this and I’m home free. I feel something brush up against my leg. I freeze. I can see its eyes. I feel trapped in them. I see it preparing to strike.


 I run. I shake. I scream. It bites. There’s red. It’s wet. It’s dark.


 —
 
  Ashley Anderson, Hoggard High School, NC
 

 
  Monster
 


 I search through these wet marsh lands. Me and my team of rehabilitation specialist have been searching for Burmese pythons which have been infesting the everglades of Florida. As I gently walk through the thick mud I hear a rustle in the shrubs, I pan my head in the direction I head the sound. At first I saw nothing but as I heard another rustle right where I was looking I saw it. I yelled for my team “I FOUND A HUGE ONE” they came running towards my way unaware of the massive beast I have just found. As they get to me I point out to the snake its giant body was thicker than my torso. My team looks at the snake all four of them gasping at the monster that had to be over fifteen feet. We started coming up with a plan on how to catch it, we had to think fast because at this time it was moving towards a body of water. We divert its attention by grabbing its tail, it didn’t like that. Through a long process of getting the pythons attention, dodging bites, and grabbing we finally managed to get the snake. After measuring it out we found out that it was seventeen feet long, we decided to take a picture with this monster. It took four of us just to hold it all up.


 —
 
  Wyatt Young, Hoggard High School
 


 
  I’m lucky to be alive.
 


 It’s huge i’m telling you,
 
 The monster had to be at least 17 feet,
 
 You have to believe me,
 
 I’m lucky to be alive.


 I couldn’t believe my eyes when I saw it,
 
 I could see it staring back at me,
 
 Slithering its way towards me just for an appetizer,
 
 I’m lucky to be alive.


 The one time I wished I never went alone,
 
 Seeing my life flash before my eyes,
 
 Wondering if that beast was going to be the last thing I ever see,
 
 I’m lucky to be alive.


 I ran as fast as I can back to camp,
 
 Telling them the whole experience,
 
 They were all surprised and wanted to see it for themselves,
 
 But I was lucky to be alive.


 The creature was actually quiet calm,
 
 It didn’t put up a fight,
 
 Now if you don’t believe my story I have a picture to prove it,
 
 And you must admit i’m lucky to be alive.


 —
 
  Kyndal Sloan, Hoggard High School
 


 
  Victorious
 


 Walking through the tall grass in the open field, Blake shouts, “HOW MUCH LONGER,” to the three other rangers walking 70 yards ahead of him. “TWENTY MORE MINUTES.” Blake continues dragging his unseen feet as he trudged on. They come upon a large tree and stop, Blake finally catches up and they all glance at each other not daring to make a sound. They needed to find this python to be able to reopen the park. Each ranger scans the tree and the rest of the field. They all look different ways to prevent any surprise sightings of the python. Finally Blake spots the python in the field. He alerts the others and they slowly creep up behind. They execute their plan of grabbing the snake from behind and launching themselves over it to catch it in time. Everything goes according to plan and they each carry the python back to camp for a victorious picture.


 —
 
  Talia Porzio, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NC
 

 Advertisement

 Feature


 In three decades of advocating for prison abolition, the activist and scholar has helped transform how people think about criminal justice.

 
  Ruth Wilson Gilmore
 
 
  
   Credit
  
  
   
    Credit
   
   
    Dana Scruggs for The New York Times
   
  
 

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Rachel Kushner
 

 
  
   T
  
 
 here’s an anecdote that Ruth Wilson Gilmore likes to share about being at an environmental-justice conference in Fresno in 2003. People from all over California’s Central Valley had gathered to talk about the serious environmental hazards their communities faced, mostly as a result of decades of industrial farming, conditions that still have not changed. (The air quality in the Central Valley is the worst in the nation, and one million of its residents drink tap water more poisoned than the water in Flint, Mich.) There was a “youth track” at the conference, in which children were meant to talk about their worries and then decide as a group what was most important to be done in the name of environmental justice. Gilmore, a renowned geography professor (then at University of California, Berkeley, now at the CUNY Graduate Center in Manhattan) and an influential figure in the prison-abolition movement, was a keynote speaker.


 She was preparing her talk when someone told her that the kids wanted to speak with her. She went into the room where they were gathered. The children were primarily Latino, many of them the sons and daughters of farmworkers or other people in the agriculture industry. They ranged in age, but most were middle schoolers: old enough to have strong opinions and to distrust adults. They were frowning at her with their shoulders up and their arms crossed. She didn’t know these kids, but she understood that they were against her.


 “What’s going on?” she asked.


 “We hear you’re a prison abolitionist,” one said. “You want to
 
  close
 
 prisons?”


 Gilmore said that was right; she did want to close prisons.


 But why, they asked. And before she could answer, one said, “But what about the people who do something seriously wrong?” Others chimed in. “What about people who hurt other people?” “What about if someone kills someone?”

 Whether from tiny farm towns or from public housing around Fresno and Bakersfield, these children, it was obvious to Gilmore, understood innately the harshness of the world and were not going to be easily persuaded.


 “I get where you’re coming from,” she said. “But how about this: Instead of asking whether anyone should be locked up or go free, why don’t we think about why we solve problems by repeating the kind of behavior that brought us the problem in the first place?” She was asking them to consider why, as a society, we would choose to model cruelty and vengeance.


 As she spoke, she felt the kids icing her out, as if she were a new teacher who had come to proffer some bogus argument and tell them it was for their own good. But Gilmore pressed on, determined. She told them that in Spain, where it’s really quite rare for one person to kill another, the average time you might serve for murdering someone is seven years.


 “What? Seven years!” The kids were in such disbelief about a seven-year sentence for murder that they relaxed a little bit. They could be outraged about that, instead of about Gilmore’s ideas.


 Gilmore told them that in the unusual event that someone in Spain thinks he is going to solve a problem by killing another person, the response is that the person loses seven years of his life to think about what he has done, and to figure out how to live when released. “What this policy tells me,” she said, “is that where life is precious, life
 
  is
 
 precious.” Which is to say, she went on, in Spain people have decided that life has enough value that they are not going to behave in a punitive and violent and life-annihilating way toward people who hurt people. “And what this demonstrates is that for people trying to solve their everyday problems, behaving in a violent and life-annihilating way is not a solution.”

 The children showed Gilmore no emotion except guarded doubt, expressed in side eye. She kept talking. She believed her own arguments and had given them many years of thought as an activist and a scholar, but the kids were a tough sell. They told Gilmore that they would think about what she said and dismissed her. As she left the room, she felt totally defeated.


 At the end of the day, the kids made a presentation to the broader conference, announcing, to Gilmore’s surprise, that in their workshop they had come to the conclusion that there were three environmental hazards that affected their lives most pressingly as children growing up in the Central Valley. Those hazards were pesticides, the police and prisons.


 “Sitting there listening to the kids stopped my heart,” Gilmore told me. “Why? Abolition is deliberately everything-ist; it’s about the entirety of human-environmental relations. So, when I gave the kids an example from a different place, I worried they might conclude that some people elsewhere were just better or kinder than people in the South San Joaquin Valley — in other words, they’d decide what happened elsewhere was irrelevant to their lives. But judging from their presentation, the kids lifted up the larger point of what I’d tried to share: Where life is precious, life is precious. They asked themselves, ‘Why do we feel every day that life here is
 
  not
 
 precious?’ In trying to answer, they identified what makes them vulnerable.”

 
  Prison abolition,
 
 as a movement, sounds provocative and absolute, but what it is as a practice requires subtler understanding. For Gilmore, who has been active in the movement for more than 30 years, it’s both a long-term goal and a practical policy program, calling for government investment in jobs, education, housing, health care — all the elements that are required for a productive and violence-free life. Abolition means not just the closing of prisons but the presence, instead, of vital systems of support that many communities lack. Instead of asking how, in a future without prisons, we will deal with so-called violent people, abolitionists ask how we resolve inequalities and get people the resources they need long before the hypothetical moment when, as Gilmore puts it, they “mess up.”


 “Every age has had its hopes,” William Morris wrote in 1885, “hopes that look to something beyond the life of the age itself, hopes that try to pierce into the future.” Morris was a proto-abolitionist: In his utopian novel “News From Nowhere,” there are no prisons, and this is treated as an obvious, necessary condition for a happy society.


 In Morris’s era, the prison was relatively new as the most common form of punishment. In England, historically, people were incarcerated for only a short time, before being dragged out and whipped in the street. As Angela Davis narrates in her 2003 book, “Are Prisons Obsolete?” while early English common law deemed the crime of petty treason punishable by being burned alive, by 1790 this punishment was reformed to death by hanging. In the wake of the Enlightenment, European reformers gradually moved away from corporal punishment
 
  tout court
 
 ; people would go to prison for a set period of time, rather than to wait for the punishment to come. The penitentiary movement in both England and the United States in the early 19th century was motivated in part by the demand for more humanitarian punishment. Prison
 
  was
 
 the reform.

 If prison, in its philosophical origin, was meant as a humane alternative to beatings or torture or death, it has transformed into a fixed feature of modern life, one that is not known, even by its supporters and administrators, for its humanity. In the United States, we now have more than two million incarcerated people, a majority of them black or brown, virtually all of them from poor communities. Prisons not only have violated human rights and failed at rehabilitation; it’s not even clear that prisons deter crime or increase public safety.


 Following an incarceration boom that began all over the United States around 1980 and only recently started to level off, reform has become politically popular. But abolitionists argue that many reforms have done little more than reinforce the system. In every state where the death penalty has been abolished, for example, it has been replaced by the sentence of life without parole — to many people a death sentence by other, more protracted means. Another product of good intentions: campaigns to reform indeterminate sentencing, resulting in three-strike programs and mandatory-minimum sentencing, which traded one cruelty for another. Over all, reforms have not significantly reduced incarceration numbers, and no recent reform legislation has even aspired to do so.


 
  
   [Read about an ex-convict who wanted to become an attorney
  
 
 
  .
 
 
  
   ]
  
 


 For instance, the first federal prison reform in almost 10 years, the bipartisan First Step Act, which President Trump signed into law late last year, will result in the release of only some 7,000 of the 2.3 million people currently locked up when it goes into effect. Federal legislation pertains only to federal prisons, which hold less than 10 percent of the nation’s prison population, and of those, First Step applies to only a slim subset. As Gilmore said to me, noting an outsize public enthusiasm after the act passed the Senate, “There are people who behave as though the origin and cure are federal. So many are unaware of how the country is juridically organized, and that there are at least 52 criminal-legal jurisdictions in the U.S.”


 Which isn’t to say that Gilmore and other abolitionists are opposed to all reforms. “It’s obvious that the system won’t disappear overnight,” Gilmore told me. “No abolitionist thinks that will be the case.” But she finds First Step, like many state reforms it mimics, not just minor but exclusionary, on account of wording in the bill that will make it even harder for some to get relief. (Those convicted of most higher-level offenses, for example, are ineligible for earned-time credits, a new category created under First Step.) “So many of these proposed remedies don’t end up diminishing the system. They regard the system as something that can be fixed by removing and replacing a few elements.” For Gilmore, debates over
 
  which
 
 individuals to let out of prison accept prison as a given. To her, this is not just a moral error but a practical one, if the goal is to actually end mass incarceration. Instead of trying to fix the carceral system, she is focused on policy work to reduce its scope and footprint by stopping new prison construction and closing prisons and jails one facility at a time, with painstaking grass-roots organizing and demands that state funding benefit, rather than punish, vulnerable communities.


 “What I love about abolition,” the legal scholar and author James Forman Jr. told me, “and now use in my own thinking — and when I identify myself as an abolitionist, this is what I have in mind — is the idea that you imagine a world without prisons, and then you work to try to build that world.” Forman came late, he said, to abolitionist thinking. He was on tour for his 2017 Pulitzer Prize-winning book, “Locking Up Our Own,” which documents the history of mass incarceration and the inadvertent roles that black political leaders played, when a woman asked him why he didn’t use the word “abolition” in his arguments, which, to her, sounded so abolitionist. The question led Forman to engage seriously with the concept. “I feel like a movement to end mass incarceration and replace it with a system that actually restores and protects communities will never succeed without abolitionists. Because people will make compromises and sacrifices, and they’ll lose the vision. They’ll start to think things are huge victories, when they’re tiny. And so, to me, abolition is essential.”


 The A.C.L.U.’s Smart Justice campaign, the largest in the organization’s history, has been started with a goal of reducing the prison population by 50 percent through local, state and federal initiatives to reform bail, prosecution, sentencing, parole and re-entry. “Incarceration does not work,” said the A.C.L.U. campaign director Udi Ofer. The A.C.L.U., he told me, wants to “defund the prison system and reinvest in communities.” In our conversation, I found myself wondering if Ofer, and the A.C.L.U., had been influenced by abolitionist thinking and Gilmore. Ofer even seemed to quote Gilmore’s mantra that “prisons are catchall solutions to social problems.” When I asked him, Ofer said, “There’s no question. She’s made tremendous contributions, even just in helping to bring about a conversation on what this work really is, and the constant struggle not to replace one oppressive system with another.”


 Of the A.C.L.U.’s objectives, Gilmore is both hopeful and cautious. “I look forward to seeing how they revise their approach from the exclusionary First Step Act,” she told me, “and to seeing how their ambitions, working in multiple jurisdictions, play out.” In the last decade, prison populations nationally have shrunk by only 7 percent, and according to the Vera Institute of Justice, 40 percent of this reduction can be attributed to California, which in 2011 was mandated by the Supreme Court to solve overcrowding. Ofer conceded that the greatest challenge is to stop sorting who receives relief based on a divide between violent and nonviolent offenses. “To genuinely end mass incarceration in America, we have to transform how the justice system responds to
 
  all
 
 offenses,” Ofer said. “Politically, this is a hard conversation. But morally, it’s clear what the direction must be: dismantling the system.”

 
  Critics have been
 
 asking whether prisons themselves were the best solutions to social problems since the birth of the penitentiary system. In 1902, the famous trial lawyer Clarence Darrow told men held in Chicago’s Cook County Jail: “There should be no jails. They do not accomplish what they pretend to accomplish.” By the late 1960s and early 1970s, an abolition movement had gained traction among a diverse range of people, including scholars, policymakers (even centrist ones), legislators and religious leaders in the United States. In Scandinavia, a prison-abolition movement led to, if not the eradication of prisons, a shift to “open prisons” that emphasize reintegrating people into society and have had very low recidivism rates. After the 1971 uprising at the Attica Correctional Facility outside Buffalo, N.Y., resulting in the deaths of 43 people, there was growing sentiment in the United States that drastic changes were needed. In 1976, a Quaker prison minister named Fay Honey Knopp and a group of activists published the booklet “Instead of Prisons: A Handbook for Abolitionists,” which outlined three main goals: to establish a moratorium on all new prison building, to decarcerate those currently in prison and to “excarcerate” — i.e., move away from criminalization and from the use of incarceration altogether. The path that abolitionists called for to achieve these goals seemed strikingly similar to the original (if ultimately failed) goals of the Great Society and “war on crime” laid out by Lyndon B. Johnson in the mid to late 1960s: to generate millions of new jobs, combat employment discrimination, desegregate schools, broaden the social safety net and build new housing. But the ravaging impact of deindustrialization on urban communities had already begun, and it was addressed not with vast social programs but with new and harsh forms of criminalization.


 By the late 1990s, as prisons and prison populations expanded significantly, a new call emerged to try to stop states from building more prisons, centered in California and led by, among others, Gilmore and Angela Davis, with the formation of groups like the California Prison Moratorium Project, which Gilmore helped found. In 1998, Davis and Gilmore, along with a group of people in the Bay Area, founded Critical Resistance, a national anti-prison organization that made abolition its central tenet — a goal dismissed by many as utopian and naïve. Five years later, Californians United for a Responsible Budget (CURB), of which Gilmore is a board member, was formed to fight jail and prison construction. CURB quickly rose to prominence for its successful campaigns, which, at last count, have prevented over 140,000 new jail and prison beds (in a state where 200,000 are currently held in prisons and jails). CURB just recently succeeded in halting construction of a huge new women’s jail in Los Angeles County, in coordination with several local groups.


 
  
   [If prisons don’t work, what will?]
  
 


 Each of the many campaigns Gilmore worked on over the years was built from a different coalition of people who could be negatively affected by a new jail or prison. Her strategy was not to simply fight prisons directly and hope others joined in but rather to seek out groups that were already mobilized. Whether environmentalists who could be made to realize that a new prison would harm biodiversity, or local community members worried about a prison’s impact on the water table or undeliverable promises of local employment, “whatever is already there, in terms of people who are organized, that is how to direct the work,” Gilmore told me. “You have to talk to people and see what they want.” In 2004, for example, there was a measure on the Los Angeles County ballot to hire 5,000 new police officers and deputy sheriffs and to start expanding the city’s jail. Gilmore helped organize a campaign in South Central and East Los Angeles, meeting and talking to people, getting them to ask questions and to express their needs. Did the needs of neighborhood residents coincide with the needs of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s and Police Departments? Did they want more police officers in their communities? The answer was no. The measure failed. “It was plodding work — organizing, and organizing, and organizing — but we won. We beat them back.”


 When the state wanted to build what it was calling new “gender-responsive” prisons, abolitionists organized with people in California women’s prisons. The organization Justice Now circulated a petition that 3,300 incarcerated people signed, to protest the new facilities intended to house them. A list of the incarcerated signatories — a 25-foot scroll — was presented at the State Capitol, to audible gasps from the Senate Budget Subcommittee on Prisons. The proposal by the state’s Gender Responsive Strategies Commission was defeated. “It’s not that everybody who was organized on these campaigns was themselves an abolitionist,” Gilmore told me, “but instead that abolitionists engaged in a certain kind of organizing that made all different kinds of people, in all different kinds of situations, decide for themselves that it was not a good idea to have another prison.”

 
  By the time
 
 Gilmore began graduate studies at Rutgers University, in 1994 at the age of 43, she was a seasoned activist who had benefited from an extensive informal education with scholars like Cedric Robinson, Barbara Smith and Mike Davis, the author of “City of Quartz,” who popularized the term “prison-industrial complex.” Gilmore originally thought to pursue a Ph.D. in planning at Rutgers, which seemed the closest to what she wanted to do: parse social problems in relation to the world we’ve built. Then she encountered the work of the influential Marxist geographer Neil Smith and quickly decided to mail her application to the geography department instead. Geography, she discovered, allowed her to examine urban-rural connections and to think broadly about how life is organized into competing and cooperating systems.


 Gilmore received her Ph.D. four years later and was hired the next year as an assistant professor at Berkeley. She wanted to call the first course she taught there “Carceral Geography.” The head of the department disapproved. “Can’t you call it ‘Race and Crime’?” he asked. She replied that her course was not about race and crime. (The department head has a different recollection.) She got her way and has been developing the concept of carceral geography ever since, a category of scholarship she more or less single-handedly invented, which examines the complex interrelationships among landscape, natural resources, political economy, infrastructure and the policing, jailing, caging and controlling of populations. In the years since, Gilmore has shaped the thinking of many geographers, as well as generations of graduate students and activists.

 I saw her ability to situate the problem of prison in a much larger political and economic landscape when Davis and Gilmore engaged in a conversation moderated by Beth Richie, a law and African-American studies professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, in a large church in the city, the three of them — black, radical, feminist intellectuals — seated in huge and ornate bishops’ chairs. The event, organized by Critical Resistance, was crowded with South Side organizers, the youngest of whom were invited onstage to offer tributes to Davis, the most famous person in the room. It was all feel-good vibes, and then Davis turned to Gilmore and brought up the topic of private prisons. The tone in the room grew tense.


 By now it has become almost conventional wisdom to think that private prisons are the “real” problem with mass incarceration. But anyone seriously engaged with the subject knows that this is not the case. Even a cursory glance at numbers proves it: Ninety-two percent of people locked inside American prisons are held in publicly run, publicly funded facilities, and 99 percent of those in jail are in public jails. Every private prison could close tomorrow, and not a single person would go home. But the ideas that private prisons are the culprit, and that profit is the motive behind all prisons, have a firm grip on the popular imagination. (Incidentally, it isn’t just liberals who focus their outrage on private prisons; as Gilmore points out, so do law-enforcement agencies and guards’ unions, for whom private prisons draw off resources they want for themselves.)


 Davis noted the “mistake,” as she put it, in the film “13th,” by Ava DuVernay, in sending a message that the main struggle should be against private prisons. But, she said to Gilmore, she saw the popular emphasis on privatization as useful in demonstrating the ways in which prisons are part of the global capitalist system.


 Gilmore replied to her longtime comrade that private prisons are not driving mass incarceration. “They are parasites on it. Which doesn’t make them good. Which doesn’t make them not culpable for the things of which they are culpable. They are parasites.” And then she began a sermon on the difference between the profit motive for a company and how public institutions are funded and run. In her fluency on these subjects, a certain gulf opened between the two women. If Davis’s charisma could be described as unflappable eloquence, Gilmore’s derives from a fierce and precise analysis, an intolerance of vagaries, and it was Gilmore who commanded the room.


 Government agencies don’t make profits; instead, they need revenue. State agencies must compete for this revenue, Gilmore explained. Under austerity, the social-welfare function shrinks; the agencies that receive the money are the police, firefighters and corrections. So other agencies start to copy what the police do: The education department, for instance, learns that it can receive money for metal detectors much more easily than it can for other kinds of facility upgrades. And prisons can access funds that traditionally went elsewhere — for example, money goes to county jails and state prisons for “mental health services” rather than into public health generally. “If you follow the money, you don’t have to find the company that’s profiting,” Gilmore explained to me later. “You can find all the people who are dependent on wages paid out by the Department of Corrections. The most powerful lobby group in California are the guards. It’s a single trade, with one employer, and it couldn’t be easier for them to organize. They can elect everyone from D.A.s up to the governor. They gave Gray Davis a couple million dollars, and he gave them a prison.”


 The explicit function of prison is to separate people from society, and this
 
  costs
 
 money. Fifteen and a half billion dollars of the proposed budget for the coming year will go to corrections, and 40 percent of that goes to staff salaries alone, not including benefits and generous pensions. This is state-subsidized employment, not a profit venture.


 Between 1982 and 2000, California built 23 new prisons and, Gilmore found, increased the state’s prison population by 500 percent. If prison scholars tend to focus on one angle or another of incarceration trends, Gilmore provides the most structurally comprehensive explanations, using California as a case study. In her 2007 book, “Golden Gulag,” she draws upon her vast knowledge of political economy and geography to put together a portrait of significant historical change and the drive to embark upon what, as two California state analysts called it, “the largest prison building project in the history of the world.” Were prisons a response to rising crime? As Gilmore writes, “Crime went up; crime went down; we cracked down.” This sequence, and how crime rates are measured, have been heavily debated, but if this noncausal order is really the case, what was going on? Gilmore outlines four categories of “surplus” to explain the prison-building boom. There was “surplus land,” because farmers didn’t have enough water to irrigate crops, and economic stagnation meant the land was no longer as valuable. As the California government faced lean years, it was left with what she calls “surplus state capacity” — government agencies that had lost their political mandate to use funding and expertise for social welfare benefits (like schools, housing and hospitals). In the wake of this austerity, investors specializing in public finance found themselves with no market for projects like schools and housing and instead used this “surplus capital” to make a market in prison bonds. And finally, there was “surplus labor,” resulting from a population of people who, whether from deindustrialized urban centers or languishing rural areas, had been excluded from the economy — in other words, the people from which prison populations nationwide are drawn.

 Prisons are not a result of a desire by “bad” people, Gilmore says, to lock up poor people and people of color. “The state did not wake up one morning and say, ‘Let’s be mean to black people.’ All these other things had to happen that made it turn out like this. It didn’t have to turn out like this.” Her narrative involves a broad array of players and facts, some direct, some indirect, some coordinated, many not: for instance, farmers who leased or sold land to the state for the building of prisons; the very powerful correctional officers’ union, state policymakers, city governments, cycles of drought, economic crisis and huge deindustrialized urban centers; and the lives and fates of the descendants of those who migrated to Southern California for factory work during World War II and after. Her fundamental point is that prison was not inevitable — not for individuals and not for California. But the more prisons the state built, the better the state became at filling them, even despite falling crime rates.

 “Golden Gulag” has seminal status among Gilmore’s academic peers and activist network, and also more widely — J
 
  ay-Z praised it in Time magazine
 
 — but certain sections of the book can be intimidatingly technical. Even Gilmore suspects that some who name-check it haven’t actually sat down to read it. “The situation — causes, effects — are complicated,” she told me, “and people want something that’s easy.” And yet when Gilmore interacts with people, whether one on one or with an audience, she is direct and accessible. She has a warm and effusive demeanor and is quick to laugh with people and bond with them. She speaks plainly and yet refuses to oversimplify. She gets people thinking about interconnections among larger structures that lead to the creation of prisons, and also interconnections among groups of people that might work together to resist the building of prisons — like environmental activists and teachers’ unions.


 It is in this manner that she organized in 1999 with both farmworkers and farmers (“in capitalist terms, natural antagonists,” as she pointed out to me) to stop a proposed prison in Tulare County, and successfully persuaded the California State Employees Association (CSEA) — then a union of more than 80,000 members — to support a campaign to oppose a new prison in Delano. “The guards could not believe that these public-service employees would go up against other public-service employees,” she told me. “Even we were surprised.” CSEA came to the understanding, as Gilmore recalls, that a guard is a state worker who has to have a prison to have a job, while state-employed locksmiths, secretaries, janitors and so forth didn’t
 
  need
 
 to work in prisons but might have to, if the guards’ union got all the resources.


 Despite a lawsuit initiated by a coalition of legal and human rights groups, including Critical Resistance, and environmental concerns raised by a state senator, the prison in Delano did eventually open in 2005, but according to Gilmore it took many years longer than it would have without abolitionists’ campaigning against it. “It got to the point where in Sacramento, they were saying, ‘Just let us build this one, and we won’t build any more.’ That’s how they talked to us, because they got so tired of us. ‘Just let us do this, this will be our last one.’ Before the ribbon cutting, the secretary of corrections said, ‘This is probably the last prison we’re going to open in this state.’ He did not say ‘because the abolitionists got in our way,’ or ‘the abolitionists organized all these people that got in our way,’ but the implication was there.”

 
  “To understand
 
 Ruthie, you have to understand where she came from, what her family was like,” Mike Davis told me. Gilmore was born in 1950 and grew up in New Haven, Conn., with three brothers in a household that she calls “decidedly Afro-Saxon,” quoting the term that one of her mentors, the political theorist Cedric Robinson, used to describe the family of W.E.B. Du Bois. “Puritan determination was our thing,” she told me. “I could not fail, because everything I did was for black people.” Gilmore’s family attended what was then Dixwell Avenue Congregational Church, which was heavily involved in the civil rights movement. “There was an ethos in my little church,” she said. “Everyone needs to learn as much as they can.” They had black-history lessons in Sunday school, where they were encouraged to wonder and ask questions. “If you made a claim, the rule was, you had to be able to tell someone
 
  how
 
 you knew it.”

 As a child, Gilmore secretly wanted to be a preacher. On Sundays, in the pew, she would imagine herself in the pulpit in preacher’s robes. “Which is strange because I could barely open my mouth with strangers. So why I could imagine myself scolding and encouraging the masses, I don’t know.”


 Gilmore’s father, Courtland Seymour Wilson, a tool-and-die maker for the firearm manufacturer Winchester, played a central role in organizing Winchester’s machinists. The only time in her childhood that white people came to the house was for labor meetings. She would sit on the stairs and listen to the men, who smoked and argued late into the night. As they left, she would peek through a window to watch them leave. “There was always a car outside that people had not gotten out of. It left when the others left.” When she learned about Pinkertons, who spied on mineworkers, Gilmore realized the men who parked outside her house were company spies, the equivalent of Pinkertons.


 Gilmore’s father had inherited a tradition of labor organizing from his own father, a janitor at Yale who helped to organize the first blue-collar workers’ union at the university. Eventually Gilmore’s father also ended up employed by Yale, where he worked to desegregate its medical school. “He was without question the leader of the civil rights struggle in New Haven,” Davis told me.


 While Gilmore’s father was not college-educated, he was intellectually driven and encouraged Gilmore, a daddy’s girl who showed much academic promise. In 1960, a local private school decided to desegregate before it was legally forced to, and sent letters to respected black churches asking about girls who might be “appropriate.” Gilmore took the school’s entrance exam, which was the same test it gave white girls, and passed. (“It was an easy exam. Like, for [expletive]’s sake, what was all the fuss?”) Gilmore was the school’s first and, for much of her time there, only black student, and one of a small number of working-class students. She was miserable, but she learned a lot.

 In 1968, she enrolled at Swarthmore College, where she got involved in campus politics. It was the year of occupations. She and a group of other black students, among them Angela Davis’s younger sister, Fania, wanted to persuade the administration to enroll more black students, and Davis, on a visit to Swarthmore, gave the students advice. “She seemed so amazingly mature and knowledgeable to me,” Gilmore said. “I was 19, and she was 24. She had the Alabama style, talked slowly and deliberately, wore a miniskirt.” Davis told them: “Figure out what you want, and stick with it. Make a demand.”


 In January, Gilmore, Fania and a handful of other black students took over the admissions office. Gilmore invited her parents to come down from New Haven and offer political guidance. It was decided that Gilmore and her father, representing the group, would approach Swarthmore’s president, Courtney Smith. When they found him, Gilmore, who was raised with formal manners, said, “President Smith, I’d like to introduce you to my father.” Smith turned his back and walked away. Gilmore was outraged, but her father was casual. “He knew how to keep his eyes on the prize. What’s it about? It’s definitely not about
 
  that
 
 .”

 Gilmore’s parents left, and the occupation continued. Eight days into the occupation, Smith had a heart attack at 52 and died at his desk. White students spread a rumor that Gilmore and her cohort were in the president’s office, yelling at him when he died (in reality, they were nowhere near his office), and there were rumors that they had threatened to get revenge.


 At the time, Swarthmore, just like Yale, had a large number of black employees who performed the necessary if less visible jobs around campus, and these people, it turned out, had been observing events from a distance. “They decided to save us,” Gilmore told me. “Cars pulled into the circular drive, and these black men got out and stood looking up at us, in the windows. We left with them. It all seemed magical to me. It was ontology put into action, that made it possible for folks to pull up in these cars and silently wait to rescue us, and we knew to be rescued.”


 The men drove them to a house where they bedded down for the night. The next morning, some people went out for supplies and returned with food and a copy of that morning’s paper. In the paper was a picture of Gilmore’s cousin, John Huggins. He had served in Vietnam and been radicalized upon his return, becoming a founding member of the Southern California chapter of the Black Panthers. Now he and another Panther, Bunchy Carter, had been murdered on the U.C.L.A. campus by a rival political group.


 Her cousin’s murder was a personal devastation, if also a symptom of the politics of the time (as later came to light, the F.B.I. had infiltrated these organizations, in order to create the divisions that most likely contributed to this fatal encounter). Gilmore left Swarthmore and moved home. Later that year, she enrolled at Yale and got deeply involved with her studies.


 “Every year I had one teacher who was really good to me, interested in what I thought about and wrote,” she said. One of them was George Steiner. Another was the film and drama critic Stanley Kauffmann. Gilmore graduated with a degree in drama before vagabonding across the country. She ended up in Southern California, where she met her husband, Craig Gilmore, and embarked on organizing work they’ve participated in together since 1976.


 
  Gilmore has come
 
 to understand that there are certain narratives people cling to that are not only false but that allow for policy positions aimed at minor or misdirected — rather than fundamental and meaningful — reforms. Gilmore takes apart these narratives: that a significant number of people are in prison for nonviolent drug convictions; that prison is a modified continuation of slavery, and, by extension, that most everyone in prison is black; and, as she explained in Chicago, that corporate profit motive is the primary engine of incarceration.


 For Gilmore, and for a growing number of scholars and activists, the idea that prisons are filled with nonviolent offenders is particularly problematic. Less than one in five nationally are in prisons or jail for drug offenses, but this notion proliferated in the wake of the overwhelming popularity of Michelle Alexander’s “The New Jim Crow,” which focuses on the devastating effects of the war on drugs, cases that are primarily handled by the (relatively small) federal prison system. It’s easy to feel outrage about draconian laws that punish nonviolent drug offenders, and about racial bias, each of which Alexander catalogs in a riveting and persuasive manner. But a majority of people in state and federal prisons have been convicted of what are defined as violent offenses, which can include everything from possession of a gun to murder. This statistical reality can be uncomfortable for some people, but instead of grappling with it, many focus on the “relatively innocent,” as Gilmore calls them, the addicts or the falsely accused — never mind that they can only ever represent a small percentage of those in prison. When I asked Michelle Alexander about this, she responded: “I think the failure of some academics like myself to squarely respond to the question of violence in our work has created a situation in which it almost seems like we’re approving of mass incarceration for violent people. Those of us who are committed to ending the system of mass criminalization have to begin talking more about violence. Not only the harm it causes, but the fact that building more cages will never solve it.”

 But in the United States, it’s difficult for people to talk about prison without assuming there is a population that must stay there. “When people are looking for the relative innocence line,” Gilmore told me, “in order to show how sad it is that the relatively innocent are being subjected to the forces of state-organized violence as though they were criminals, they are missing something that they
 
  could
 
 see. It isn’t that hard. They could be asking whether people who have been criminalized should be subjected to the forces of organized violence. They could ask if we
 
  need
 
 organized violence.”


 Another widely held misconception Gilmore points to is that prison is majority black. Not only is it a false and harmful stereotype to overassociate black people with prison, she argues, but by not acknowledging racial demographics and how they shift from one state to another, and over time, the scope and crisis of mass incarceration can’t be fully comprehended. In terms of racial demographics, black people are the population most affected by mass incarceration — roughly 33 percent of those in prison are black, while only 12 percent of the United States population is — but Latinos still make up 23 percent of the prison population and white people 30 percent, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. (Gilmore has heard people argue that drug laws will change because the opioid epidemic hurts rural whites, a myth that drives her crazy. “People say, ‘God knows they’re not going to lock up white people,’ ” she told me, “and it’s like, Yes, they
 
  do
 
 lock up white people.”) Once you believe prisons are predominately black, it’s also easier to believe that prisons are a conspiracy to re-enslave black people — a narrative, Gilmore acknowledges, that offers two crucial truths: that the struggles and suffering of black people are central to the story of mass incarceration, and that prison, like slavery, is a human rights catastrophe. But prison as a modern version of Jim Crow mostly serves to allow people to worry about a population they might otherwise ignore. “The guilty are worthy of being ignored, and yet mass incarceration is so phenomenal that people are trying to find a way to care about those who are guilty of crimes. So, in order to care about them, they have to have some category to which they become worthy of worry. And the category is slavery.”


 A person who eventually either steals something or assaults someone goes to prison, where he is offered no job training, no redress of his own traumas and issues, no rehabilitation. “The reality of prison, and of black suffering, is just as harrowing as the myth of slave labor,” Gilmore says. “Why do we need that misconception to see the horror of it?” Slaves were compelled to work in order to make profits for plantation owners. The business of slavery was cotton, sugar and rice. Prison, Gilmore notes, is a government institution. It is not a business and does not function on a profit motive. This may seem technical, but the technical distinction matters, because you can’t resist prisons by arguing against slavery if prisons don’t engage in slavery. The activist and researcher James Kilgore, himself formerly incarcerated, has said, “The overwhelming problem for people inside prison is not that their labor is super exploited; it’s that they’re being warehoused with very little to do and not being given any kind of programs or resources that enable them to succeed once they do get out of prison.”


 The National Employment Law Project estimates that about 70 million people have a record of arrest or conviction, which often makes employment difficult. Many end up in the informal economy, which has been absorbing a huge share of labor over the last 20 years. “Gardener, home health care, sweatshops, you name it,” Gilmore told me. “These people have a place in the economy, but they have no control over that place.” She continued: “The key point here, about half of the work force, is to think not only about the enormity of the problem, but the enormity of the possibilities! That so many people could benefit from being organized into solid formations, could make certain kinds of demands, on the people who pay their wages, on the communities where they live. On the schools their children go to. This is part of what abolitionist thinking should lead us to.”


 “Abolition,” as a word, is an intentional echo of the movement to abolish slavery. “This work will take generations, and I’m not going to be alive to see the changes,” the activist Mariame Kaba told me. “Similarly I know that our ancestors, who were slaves, could not have imagined my life.” And as Kaba and Davis and Richie and Gilmore all told me, unsolicited and in almost identical phrasing, it is not serendipity that the movement of prison abolition is being led by black women. Davis and Richie each used the term “abolition feminism.” “Historically, black feminists have had visions to change the structure of society in ways that would benefit not just black women but everyone,” Davis said. She also talked about Du Bois and the lessons drawn from his conception of what was needed: not merely a lack of slavery but a new society, utterly transformed. “I think the fact that so many people now do call themselves prison abolitionists,” Michelle Alexander told me, “is a testament to the fact that an enormous amount of work has been done, in academic circles and in grass-root circles. Still, if you just say ‘prison abolition’ on CNN, you’re going to have a lot of people shaking their heads. But Ruthie has always been very clear that prison abolition is not just about closing prisons. It’s a theory of change.”


 When Gilmore encounters an audience that is hostile to prison abolition, an audience that supposes she’s naïvely suggesting that those in prison are there for smoking weed, and wants to tell her who’s really locked up, what terrible things they’ve done, she tells them she’s had a loved one murdered and isn’t there to talk about people who smoke weed. But as she acknowledged to me, “Part of the whole story that can’t be denied is that people are tired of harm, they are tired of grief and they are tired of anxiety.” She described to me conversations she’d had with people who are glad their abusive husband or father has been removed from their home, and would not want it any other way. Of her own encounter with murder, she’s more philosophical, even if the loss still seems raw.


 “I had this heart-to-heart with my aunt, the mother of my murdered cousin, John. On the surface, we were talking about something else, but we were really talking about him. I said, ‘Forgive and forget.’ And she replied, ‘Forgive, but
 
  never
 
 forget.’ She was right: The conditions under which the atrocity occurred must change, so that they can’t occur again.”


 For Gilmore, to “never forget” means you don’t solve a problem with state violence or with personal violence. Instead, you change the conditions under which violence prevailed. Among liberals, a kind of quasi-Christian idea about empathy circulates, the idea that we have to find a way to care about the people who’ve done bad. To Gilmore this is unconvincing. When she encountered the kids in Fresno who hassled her about prison abolition, she did not ask them to empathize with the people who might hurt them, or had. She instead asked them why, as individuals, and as a society, we believe that the way to solve a problem is by “killing it.” She was asking if punishment is logical, and if it works. She let the kids find their own way to answer.

 Because of a transcription error, an earlier version of this article misquoted the activist Mariame Kaba. The quote is: “Similarly I know that our ancestors, who were slaves, could not have imagined my life,” not “Similarly I know that my ancestors, who were slaves, could not have imagined my life.”

 Rachel Kushner is a writer in Los Angeles. Her most recent novel is “The Mars Room.”
 
  She last wrote for the magazine about a Palestinian refugee camp.
 






 Advertisement

 Advertisement


 
  By
  
   WEIYI CAI
  
  ,
 
 
  
   ALLISON MCCANN
  
  and
 
 
  
   JUGAL K. PATEL
  
 
 
  
   UPDATED
  
  MARCH 21, 2019
 




 Africa


 Mozambique


 Cyclone Idai


 A tropical cyclone struck Mozambique and several other countries in southern Africa late last Thursday, causing widespread flooding and destruction across the southeast corner of the continent. The port city of Beira in Mozambique was hit hardest, with many homes destroyed.


 Reino


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Manga


 Beira


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Villa Arriage


 Areas that flooded
 
 


 over the past week


 Bandua


 Cyclone


 Idai


 MOZAMBIQUE


 5 miles


 Area


 shown


 Reino


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Manga


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Villa Arriage


 Beira


 Areas that


 flooded
 
  over
 


 the past week


 Bandua


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Area


 shown


 5 miles


 Reino


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Manga


 Villa Arriage


 Beira


 Areas that


 flooded
 
  over
 


 the past week


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Bandua


 Area


 shown


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Mafambisse


 Path of the cyclone


 Dondo


 Beira


 MOZAMBIQUE


 Areas that flooded
 
 


 over the past week


 Area


 shown


 At least 242 people have been killed in Mozambique, 139 people in Zimbabwe and 56 people in Malawi, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. Aid organizations said those figures could rise drastically as rescuers reach previously inaccessible areas.


 The floodwaters from the cyclone, called Idai, could have reached almost 20 feet deep, according to Matthew Cochrane, a spokesman for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
 
  Thousands
 
 
  have been displaced
 
 by the storm, and President Filipe Nyusi of Mozambique said the death toll there could climb to more than 1,000.


 The storm made landfall about two weeks ago near Quelimane, a city about 190 miles northeast of Beira, as a tropical depression with torrential rain. Wind speeds were only around 40 miles per hour, and after a few days, the storm changed course and moved back into the ocean.


 Max. wind speed


 37-56 m.p.h


 56-75


 &gt;75


 Mozambique


 Malawi


 March 9


 8 a.m.


 Saturday


 2 p.m.


 Wednesday


 8 p.m.


 Friday


 2 a.m.


 Zimbabwe


 Beira


 Madagascar


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Populated


 areas


 South


 Africa


 150 milies


 Maputo


 Mozambique


 Malawi


 Zambia


 March 9


 8 a.m.


 Saturday


 2 p.m.


 Friday


 2 a.m.


 Wednesday


 8 p.m.


 Zimbabwe


 Beira


 Madagascar


 Botswana


 Mozambique


 Channel


 Populated areas


 South


 Africa


 150 milies


 Maputo


 Mozambique


 Saturday


 2 p.m.


 March 9


 8 a.m.


 Friday


 2 a.m.


 Zimbabwe


 Beira


 Populated


 areas


 Mozambique


 Channel


 200 milies


 Maputo


 Over the past week, the storm rapidly strengthened — wind speeds picked up to about 70 miles per hour as the storm headed back in the direction of Mozambique.


 On Thursday night, the cyclone struck Mozambique for a second time. This time, however, the storm barreled toward Beira, Mozambique’s fourth-largest city, with winds over 100 miles per hour and more than seven inches of rain. The storm moved inland, devastating parts of Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe.


 Imagery of Beira provided by the International Federation of Red Cross showed the extent of the damage in the city’s center on Friday.


 The storm destroyed “90 percent” of Beira, a city of about a half-million people, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said on Monday.


 Aerial footage showed people huddled on dry areas, waiting to be rescued. Mr. Nyusi said that overflowing rivers had submerged villages and isolated communities. He reported seeing floating bodies.


 Advertisement


 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Seb Emina
 

 ANGOULÊME, France — It’s a big year for comic book anniversaries. Batman’s 80th is this year, and Asterix is turning 60. But at the Angoulême International Comics Festival in France, which finished on Sunday, there was a sense that the form’s best days may be yet to come — in the French-speaking world, at least.


 “It’s a kind of golden age,” said Jean-Luc Fromental, a comic book author who also runs a graphic-novel imprint for the publisher Denoël. “There has never been so much talent. There have never been so many interesting books published.”


 There are now more comic books published annually in France and Belgium than ever before, according to the festival’s artistic director, Stéphane Beaujean. “The market has risen from 700 books per year in the 1990s to 5,000 this year,” he said in an interview. “I don’t know any cultural industry which has had that kind of increase.”

 Research by the market research company GfK, released to coincide with the festival, showed that turnover in the comic book industry in those two countries alone reached 510 million euros, or around $580 million, in 2018.

 The bumper year in France and Belgium contrasts with a mixed situation worldwide. Comichron, a website that reports on comic book sales in the United States, where the market is worth around $1 billion, says that sales there are declining.


 But in terms of respect and recognition, comics are on the way up. In July, “Sabrina,” by the American artist Nick Drnaso, became
 
  the first graphic novel to be nominated for the Man Booker Prize
 
 , Britain’s most prestigious literary award. “March: Book Three,” a graphic novel about the civil rights movement, won the National Book Award for Young People’s Literature in 2016.


 In Angoulême, a city about 450 kilometers, or 280 miles, southwest of Paris, comic books aren’t merely an annual preoccupation. Visitors arriving by train are greeted outside the station by an obelisk honoring René Goscinny, one of the creators of Asterix. There’s a comics museum, and a comics library.


 The festival, spread out in venues across the city, featured comic books on just about every conceivable subject — the life of Jules Verne, the wines of Burgundy, erotic stories set in space, even one whose
 
  main character is a gym sock
 
 . The St.-Martial church was repurposed as a shop specializing in comic book titles for Christian readers, whether modern spiritual tales or retellings of Bible stories.

 The Angoulême event is unusual in its embrace of comics from around the world, including, but not limited to, those from the three traditions that dominate the form here: French-Belgian, American and Japanese manga. “It’s the only place in the world where you can see all the comics created in the world,” said Beaujean, who this year has doubled the size of an area where publishers can buy rights to international titles.

 Books featuring classic characters like Donald Duck, Wonder Woman and Tintin were available in both freshly-printed form and as secondhand rarities. And while occasional encounters with men in superhero outfits are unavoidable at an event like this, Angoulême has a very different atmosphere from its American counterparts such as Comic-Con.


 “In America, it’s about the pop culture, which would include everything from Marvel movies to Lego,” said the American comic book artist Terry Moore, the author of a 26-year-old series, “Strangers in Paradise.” “In France, I’m seeing that it’s about books, books, books,” he said.


 On Saturday, France’s culture minister, Franck Riester, gave a speech comparing the event’s role in the world of comics to that of the Cannes Film Festival in cinema, and Jean-Michel Blanquer, the education minister, visited on Thursday. The attendance by government officials underscored the way the “ninth art,” as comic books are sometimes referred to in France, is not a niche pursuit but a mainstream activity.


 The Angoulême festival announces a number of prizes each year, their recipients chosen by fellow comics artists. This year, for the first time, women won both of the festival’s biggest awards. A jury of seven artists selected the debut graphic novel by the American author Emil Ferris, “My Favorite Thing Is Monsters,” as winner of the Fauve d’Or, or Golden Wildcat award, for the year’s best book.


 The Japanese Manga artist Rumiko Takahashi won the Grand Prix, the festival’s lifetime achievement award. Takahashi began publishing manga comics in 1978 and her books, including “Inuyasha,” about a time-traveling schoolgirl, have sold more than 200 million copies. She is only the second woman to win the prize.

 Angoulême is a cornerstone of the comics industry in France and Belgium, but some in the field say the exuberant headlines conceal a more complex picture. A common refrain is that the huge increase in titles has meant that, while there’s more money in the industry, there are also a greater number of authors grasping for a share of it.


 Benoît Peeters, an author of comic books who has also written a biography of the philosopher Jacques Derrida, said in an interview that despite the increase in overall readership, “the sales of each book, except for those like Asterix and manga, are going down.”


 Peeters founded an organization called
 
  The General State of Comics
 
 to lobby publishers and the French government to defend the interests of comic book artists.


 He said that publishers were hedging their bets by signing up for too many books, with smaller titles often receiving inadequate support as a result. “I think the publishers need to make some choices,” he said. “When they choose a book they have to defend it and promote it.”


 But in France, at least, comic books were taken seriously as an art form, Peeters said. “When I was a young author I came from a more literary world,” he said. “People said, ‘What are you doing with comics? You are a clever person. You should work with movies or literature.’ Now, nobody would say that.”





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Daniel Victor
  
 

 Naomi Osaka, the half-Haitian, half-Japanese tennis champion, is the star of a new Japanese anime-style advertisement.


 The problem? The cartoon Ms. Osaka bears little resemblance to her real, biracial self.


 Her skin was unmistakably lightened, and her hair style changed — a depiction that has prompted criticism in Japan, where she has
 
  challenged a longstanding sense of cultural and racial homogeneity
 
 .


 The ad — unveiled this month by Nissin, one of the world’s largest instant-noodle brands — features Ms. Osaka and Kei Nishikori, Japan’s top-ranked male tennis player, in a cartoon drawn by a team commissioned by Nissin. The cartoon was based on the work of Takeshi Konomi, a well-known manga artist whose series “The Prince of Tennis” is popular in Japan.

 Ms. Osaka, who faces Elina Svitolina in an Australian Open quarterfinal match on Wednesday, and Mr. Konomi have not publicly commented on the reactions to the ad.

 But a Nissin spokesman apologized in an email on Tuesday for “the confusion and discomfort.”


 The spokesman, Daisuke Okabayashi, said that the characters had been developed in line with Mr. Konomi’s anime series and that the company had communicated with Ms. Osaka’s representatives.


 “There is no intention of whitewashing,” he said. “We accept that we are not sensitive enough and will pay more attention to diversity issue in the future.”


 After the ad was first published online, people on social media, including many fans of Ms. Osaka’s, said they were deeply disappointed.

 Baye McNeil, an author who has lived in Japan for 15 years, said he didn’t understand why the ad would “erase her black features and project this image of pretty much the prototypical anime girl-next-door character.”


 Ms. Osaka’s rise into a beloved national figure has been particularly exciting for biracial people in Japan, known as hafus, who have long battled for acceptance, he said.


 “Making her look white just tells these people that what they are isn’t good enough,” Mr. McNeil said.


 Ms. Osaka was born in Japan to a Haitian-American father and a Japanese mother, and moved to the United States when she was 3. Although she isn’t fluent in Japanese, often responding to questions from Japanese reporters in English, she has tweeted about her love of manga and Japanese movies.


 Ranked fourth in the world at just 21, she’s already among Japan’s most accomplished tennis players ever. She became the first Japanese-born tennis player to win a Grand Slam singles championship in September when she
 
  defeated Serena Williams in the U.S. Open
 
 , a victory that supercharged her celebrity ascent.


 That win prompted a cartoon in an Australian newspaper that was criticized for its
 
  depiction of Ms. Williams
 
 , which many saw as a racist caricature. While most of the condemnation focused on how the Australian cartoonist drew Ms. Williams, critics also noted that Ms. Osaka was depicted with blond hair and light skin.


 Black characters aren’t frequently found in anime, but artists in the medium have
 
  successfully depicted their skin tones before
 
 .

 “When there is a black character, it’s clearly a black character,” Mr. McNeil said.


 The discussion of biracial identity in Japan got a boost in 2015 when Ariana Miyamoto, who is half-Japanese, half-African-American,
 
  won the Miss Universe Japan pageant
 
 . She used her fame to discuss the plight of “hafus,” but some in Japan were unwilling to accept her as a model of Japanese beauty.
 


 In interviews, Ms. Osaka has embraced her multicultural background.


 “Maybe it’s because they can’t really pinpoint what I am,”
 
  she said in 2016
 
 , “so it’s like anybody can cheer for me.”

 An earlier version of this article misstated who drew the anime-style advertisement that featured Naomi Osaka with lighter skin. It was a team that Nissin commissioned, not the manga artist Takeshi Konomi, though the ad was based on Mr. Konomi’s work.

 Makiko Inoue contributed reporting.










 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Manohla Dargis
  
 

 At one point in “Alita: Battle Angel” — another dystopian fantasy that reminds you of just how visionary the original “Blade Runner” was — the cyborg heroine gets a new body. It’s a streamlined shoulder-to-foot job, one that makes her look like a sex doll with a chrome-plated musculoskeletal system. Her new physique turns out to be an innovative weapon and comes with articulated parts, a wasp waist and what looks like a discreet chastity panel for the groin. It also has larger breasts than the old model, a change that in a snort-out-loud line is pinned on Alita’s own ideas about how she should look.


 If only someone here were joking or had an idea about the construction of femininity. Why does Alita (Rosa Salazar), who has a human brain, even have breasts? Why does any cyborg that isn’t a sex bot or a wet nurse? Genre convention only partly explains the onscreen look of this character, originally created by Yukito Kishiro in his manga series. Kishiro sexes up his cyborg, an amnesiac who in the first comic retains one protuberant breast when the rest of her body is destroyed. This brings to mind Jessica Rabbit, the bodacious femme fatale in “Who Framed Roger Rabbit” who purrs “I’m just drawn that way” — yeah, but by whom, for whom and why?

 “Alita” is the latest from James Cameron, though he takes only some of the blame. He helped produce the movie and shares script credit with Laeta Kalogridis (they collaborated on “Avatar”); he was going to direct it himself but handed it off to Robert Rodriguez (“Sin City”). The presence of other “Avatar” veterans — the senior visual effects supervisor, animation supervisor and so on — raised expectations that “Alita” would at least look good, different or inspired. But too much of its overall design feels borrowed, by turns evoking the monochromatic clutter of “District 9,” the vertical favelas of “Ready Player One” and the randomly milling, anonymous hordes of whatever.

 A pileup of clichés in service to technological whiz-bangery, “Alita” is one more story of the not quite human brought to life with hubris and bleeding-edge science. It takes place in the 23rd century after a global cataclysm called the Fall. The movie’s story, inspirations and allusions (
 
  Hitchcock!
 
 ), though, more rightly announce it as a 20th-century artifact, one that begins when Alita’s head and shoulders are found and refurbished by a paternalistic doctor, Ido (an atypically uneasy Christoph Waltz). Theirs is a post-apocalyptic meet-cute that morphs from yet another riff on Frankenstein’s monster into a sitcom-y father-and-daughter duet, plus brawling and exposition.


 The story proceeds by fits and starts with a narrative line — Alita’s journey of self-awareness — that is embellished with a dreary old-fashioned romance and regularly interrupted by chaotic action scenes. Some of this crash-boom stuff takes place during a game called Motorball, one of those survivalist contests that have been a genre staple since at least the
 
  1975 film “Death Race 2000.”
 
 The contestants have something to do with Vector (a wasted Mahershala Ali), a regulation villain who takes fashion cues from “The Matrix.” This being a very small world, he lives with Ido’s ex, Chiren (Jennifer Connelly), who when not selling her soul lounges in garters and stockings.


 Everything here tends to remind you of something else, including Alita, who was created with performance capture. This involves monitoring and recording a performer’s movements using sensors attached to her face and body, information that becomes the foundation for a character that’s digitally fleshed out. Cameron used a version of this technology to greater effect in “Avatar,” a reminder that whatever his limitations as a filmmaker — he’s a great visual storyteller who’s invariably easier on the eyes than ears — he is a technological wiz. Salazar’s performance, alas, is consistently bland, but then she was drawn and directed that way, like Jessica Rabbit.


 It’s easy to imagine that both Salazar and Rodriguez would have fared better if her face had been left alone rather than rendered into a stylized manga cartoon, complete with a heart shape and eyes even bigger than Emma Stone’s. It’s vaguely diverting to stare at Alita’s face, at least at first, to ponder its shape, texture and pale color, and the way that her brow furrows when she’s being emphatic. Mostly, though, what’s interesting about it is that it lacks the conviction, the spark, which turns truly wonderful animated creations — Disney’s Pinocchio,
 
  Hayao Miyazaki’s Ponyo
 
 — into characters you laugh with and weep for. This is a matter of style, inspiration and imagination, or their absence.


 There’s so little at stake in “Alita: Battle Angel” that it blurs into uninvolving spasms of visual and aural noise as it lurches to the cliffhanger ending, a setup for promised sequels. If you stick around for the end credits, you will read that “the making and authorized distribution of this film supported over 15,000 jobs and involved hundreds of thousands of work hours.” In other words, piracy threatens the American movie industry, even if a chunk of the jobs here seem to have originated outside the United States. It’s still a worthy wag of the finger, although it’s difficult not to wish that more of those hours had been spent telling a really good story instead of tweaking tech and shiny breasts.

 Movie data powered by IMDb.com

 Alita: Battle Angel
 
 Rated PG-13 for regular violence, including cyborg dismemberment. In English and Spanish, with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes.



 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 How do you judge the performance of a very expensive cyborg?


 On one hand, Fox’s “Alita: Battle Angel,” an effects-laden, dystopian, sci-fi action movie with a bionic heroine, easily topped this weekend’s domestic box office. It exceeded most analysts’ expectations by bringing in about $27.8 million in the lead-up to Presidents’ Day.


 On the other hand, that amount is modest next to the roughly $170 million it took make the movie, produced in part by James Cameron and based on a manga series by Yukito Kishiro. A digitally augmented Rosa Salazar leads a cast that also includes Christoph Waltz and Mahershala Ali.


 While it was Robert Rodriguez — best known for the “
 
  Sin City
 
 ” and the “
 
  Spy Kids
 
 ” movies — who directed the film, Cameron’s name has been used heavily in the movie’s marketing, echoing the way Peter Jackson’s was employed to push another expensive sci-fi movie, “
 
  Mortal Engines
 
 ,” in December. (Jackson was a writer and producer of that film, but it was directed by Christian Rivers.)


 “Mortal Engines” was
 
  one of the biggest flops of 2018
 
 , opening to about $7.5 million domestically against a budget of around $100 million. Fox had initially planned to release “Alita: Battle Angel” in December, when it would have gone up against a tangle of holiday crowd-pleasers. The studio’s decision to push the release to February seems to have helped Cameron to avoid, at least, a “Mortal Engines”-like disaster.

 
  [
 
 
  
   Read our critic’s review of “Alita: Battle Angel.”
  
 
 
  ]
 


 Second place at the box office was Warner Bros.’s “
 
  The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part
 
 .” This sequel about toy-brick people, voiced by Chris Pratt and Elizabeth Banks, brought in about $21.2 million during its second weekend in theaters according to Comscore, which compiles box office data. (If there’s a lesson to take from the top two movies, it’s that audiences gravitate toward the not-quite-human.)


 Warner Bros. also took third place with “
 
  Isn’t it Romantic
 
 ,” a comedy that opened about $14.2 million in ticket sales this weekend. The movie, both a romantic comedy and a commentary on romantic comedies, stars Rebel Wilson and Liam Hemsworth.


 Meta commentary is also at play in the other newcomer to crack the top five, Universal’s “
 
  Happy Death Day 2U
 
 ,” which made around $9.8 million in its first weekend, landing in fifth place. It is a self-parodying sequel to the 2017 slasher “
 
  Happy Death Day
 
 .”


 Overall, this weekend failed to invigorate what has so far been a lackluster year at the box office. That Presidents’ Day weekend of last year
 
  saw the release
 
 of the record-shattering “Black Panther” only adds urgency to the question of when things will pick up.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Ben Kenigsberg
  
 

 
  Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at
 
 
  
   nytimes.com/reviews/movies
  
 
 
  .
 


 
  THE COMPLETE LONE WOLF AND CUB
 
 at Japan Society (Jan. 25-26). After being set up, a former shogun executioner (Tomisaburo Wakayama) strikes out as a roving, freelance assassin. He offers his infant son a choice between a sword and a ball to play with, and the child, too young even to speak, reaches for the shiny weapon — sealing his fate to tag along. Japan Society is screening this run of six films, adapted from a blockbuster manga series and
 
  a clear inspiration for Quentin Tarantino’s “Kill Bill,”
 
 in marathon form.
 
 
  212-715-1258,
 
 
  
   japansociety.org
  
 

 
  EROTIC JOURNEYS: EM(M)ANUELLE &amp; JUST JAECKIN
 
 at the Quad Cinema (Jan. 25-Feb. 7). After hosting a series of (mostly)
 
  serious-minded X-rated films
 
 that expanded the mainstream, the Quad turns to soft-core qua soft-core with the hit 1970s skin flick “Emmanuelle” (starting on Friday) and the movies it spawned. In the original, the title character, played by the Dutch actress
 
  Sylvia Kristel
 
 , is guided by both men and women toward sexual fulfillment in Thailand, in ways that, to put it mildly, do not pass contemporary standards for gender or cultural sensitivity, or consent. Sequels and knockoffs (some of which omit an “m” in the heroine’s name) follow on the docket, along with other films by the first movie’s director, whose authorial signature — “un film de Just Jaeckin” — has to rank among the most guffaw-worthy credits in screen history.
 
 
  212-255-2243,
 
 
  
   quadcinema.com
  
 

 
  [
 
 
  
   Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.
  
 
 
  ]
 


 
  HOU HSIAO-HSIEN IN THE 21ST CENTURY
 
 at the Metrograph (Jan. 25-Feb. 3). Before the 21st century, American champions of this Taiwanese director spent years bemoaning that his films went unreleased in the United States. That streak ended when
 
  “Millennium Mambo”
 
 (on Friday and Saturday) — a visually rhapsodic, sidelong look at youth and anomie — sneaked into theaters at the end of 2003, two years after its Cannes premiere. The subsequent
 
  “Three Times”
 
 (on Saturday and Sunday) — which proceeds in three chronologically disordered segments (1966, 1911, 2005) in styles suited to each era — is an ideal introduction to Hou’s work. And his Yasujiro Ozu homage
 
  “Café Lumiere”
 
 (on Feb. 3 and 4) is one of the greatest films about the paradoxical isolation of city life.
 
 
  212-660-0312,
 
 
  
   metrograph.com
  
 







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 A team of editors and designers collected the words and self-portraits of nearly 1,000
 
 
 members
 
 of Generation Z living in the United States for a project created to reflect this historically diverse group.


 By
 
 
  
   Adriana Balsamo
  
 

 
  
   Times Insider
  
 
 
  explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
 


 “What makes you different from your friends?”


 That question, posed in
 
 January
 
 to members of Generation Z — people born from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s — by editors at The New York Times, drew an immediate response.


 In a call-out on nytimes.com, readers were asked to identify themselves however they wished and invited to submit a self-portrait.


 Within 48 hours, there were over 2,500 submissions from people in all 50 states.


 “I’m the only person I know at my college that pays their own rent,”
 
 Jess from New York City, who described herself as a Korean/Caucasian female,
 
 wrote.

 “I like to read,” Phoenix, from Minneapolis, who described himself as an American man with a white mother and Vietnamese father, wrote.


 “I have red hair and I would like to be called not texted thank you very much,” Lizzie, a white woman from Boston, responded.


 Nearly 1,000 similar responses appear online in the recent article,
 
  “Gen Z: In Their Own Words,”
 
 and
 
 hundreds were featured in a special print section in Sunday’s paper.

 Generation Z, which includes the younger siblings of millennials,
 
 is the most ethnically diverse generation
 
 in United States history, according to a
 
  Pew Research Center
 
 analysis of Census Bureau data.

 The editors on the project, Lauretta Charlton, lead editor of
 
  Race/Related
 
 , a newsletter covering race issues, and Lindsey Underwood, editor of
 
  The Edit
 
 , a newsletter focusing on youth culture, wanted to reflect the myriad identities of Generation Z. But they also wanted to give them room to define themselves.


 “We all don’t fit in the narrow boxes,”
 
 Ms. Underwood
 
 said.


 “The way, I, a 30-year-old black woman, would talk about who I am is different than how my mother, a 62-year-old, would talk about who she is,” Ms. Underwood added. “And I know that a 20-year-old, someone in Gen Z, would talk about it a little bit differently, too.”


 The Times published nearly 1,000 images with this article, more than have ever accompanied any one project.
 
 
 For
 
 the digital version,
 
 Antonio de Luca and Adriana Rami
 
 ć, designers on the project, created an interactive slide show.


 “I think when the public sees a reflection of themselves, a lot more people will spend time with it,”
 
 Mr. de Luca said
 
 . “It’s not our editorial voice; this is just them
 
 .
 
 ”


 For the
 
 print component
 
 , Andrew Sondern, an art director on the project, wanted to showcase as many people as possible without overwhelming readers. He used a folded pullout section and created a collage of self-portraits alongside the responses.

 It was no coincidence that the team responsible for the project consisted mostly of millennials — the generation born from 1981 to 1996, which has been subjected to numerous sweeping articles poking and prodding at who they are, with often absurd claims, including the contention that they couldn’t afford homes because of, among other things, their spending on
 
  avocado toast
 
 .

 “You have to start with recognizing that monolithic definitions don’t serve anybody well,”
 
 Ms. Charlton said. “We can’t just say the black community, we can’t just say Generation Z feels this way. We kind of have to get our hands in there and let them speak.”


 The team wanted to include as many different voices as possible.
 
 T
 
 he Times
 
 reached out to Native American communities; diversity offices at colleges throughout the country, with specific efforts made to contact historically black colleges and universities; Muslim communities; and many other organizations.


 Then came the work of parsing them down. The editors worked together to weed out spam and violent imagery as well as verify that the submissions were from real people who still wanted to be featured in the final project.


 In response to the prompt, Elias Tzoc-Pacheco of Hamilton, Ohio, wrote, “I speak several languages, hold conservative and progressive views, and always seek to lead my community not just my school.”


 He described himself as a Guatemalan bisexual, and said participating in the project and sharing his identity on a large platform felt “
 
 impactful
 
 .”


 “It gave credibility to my experience and the others,” he said.


 Follow the
 
  @ReaderCenter
 
 on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.

 Advertisement

 
  MARCH 22, 2019
 


 
  What is it like to be part of the group that has been called the most diverse generation in U.S. history? We asked members of Generation Z to tell us what makes them different from their friends, and to describe their identity. Here's what they had to say.
 


 Advertisement


 Advertisement

 Supported by

 They’re the most diverse generation in American history, and they’re celebrating their untraditional views on gender and identity.


 By
 
 
  
   Dan Levin
  
 

 
  [For more coverage of race,
 
 
  sign up here
 
 
  to have our Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.]
 


 
  Melissa Auh Krukar
 
 is the daughter of a South Korean immigrant father and a Hispanic mother, but she refuses to check “Hispanic” or “Asian” on government forms.


 “I try to mark ‘unspecified’ or ‘other’ as a form of resistance,” said Melissa, 23, a preschool teacher in Albuquerque. “I don’t want to be in a box.”


 
  Erik Franze
 
 , 20, is a white man, but rather than leave it at that, he includes his preferred pronouns, “he/him/his,” on his email signature to respectfully acknowledge the different gender identities of his peers.

 And
 
  Shanaya Stephenson
 
 , 23, is the daughter of immigrants from Jamaica and Guyana, but she intentionally describes herself as a “pansexual black womxn.”


 “I don’t see womanhood as a foil to maleness,” she said.


 All three are members of what demographers are calling Generation Z: the postmillennial group of Americans for whom words like “intersectionality” feel as natural as applying filters to photos on Instagram.

 Born after 1995, they’re the most diverse generation ever, according to United States census data. One in four is Hispanic, and 6 percent are Asian, according to
 
  studies
 
 led by the Pew Research Center. Fourteen percent are African-American.


 And that racial and ethnic diversity is expected to increase over time, with the United States becoming
 
  majority nonwhite
 
 in less than a decade, according to Census Bureau projections.

 Along with that historic diversity, members of the generation also possess untraditional views about identity.


 The New York Times asked members of Generation Z to describe, in their own words, their gender and race as well as what made them different from their friends. Thousands
 
  replied with answers
 
 similar to those of Melissa, Erik and Shanaya.


 “It’s a generational thing,” said Melissa, the preschool teacher. “We have the tools and language to understand identity in ways our parents never really thought about.”


 More than 68 million Americans belong to Generation Z, according to 2017 survey data from the Census Bureau, a share larger than the millennials’ and second only to that of the baby boomers. Taking the pulse of any generation is complicated, but especially one of this size.


 Generation Z came of age just as the Black Lives Matter movement was cresting, and they are far more comfortable with shifting views of identity than older generations have been.


 More than one-third of Generation Z said they knew someone who preferred to be addressed using gender-neutral pronouns, a recent study by
 
  the Pew Research Center
 
 found, compared with 12 percent of baby boomers.


 “Identity is something that can change, like politics,” said
 
  Elias Tzoc-Pacheco
 
 , 17, a high school senior in Ohio who was born in Guatemala. “That’s a belief shared by a lot of my generation.”

 Last summer, Elias began identifying as bisexual. He told his family and friends, but he does not like using the term “come out” to describe the experience, because he and his friends use myriad sexual identities to describe themselves already, he said.


 Elias said he defies other expectations as well. He goes to church
 
 every day,
 
 leans conservative on the issue of abortion and supports unions, he said. He has campaigned for both Democrats and Republicans.


 His bipartisan political activism, he said, was a natural outcome of growing up in a world where identity can be as varied as a musical playlist.


 This is also the generation for whom tech devices, apps and social media have been ubiquitous throughout their lives. A Pew study last year found that
 
  nearly half of all
 
 Americans aged 13 to 17
 
 
 said they were online “almost constantly,” and more than 90 percent used social media.


 
  Wyatt Hale
 
 , a high school junior in Bremerton, Wash., has few friends “in real life,” he said, but plenty around the world — Virginia, Norway, Italy — whom he frequently texts and talks to online.


 Their friendships started out on YouTube. “I could tell you everything about them,” he said. “But not what they look like in day-to-day life.”

 
  Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the age of Shanaya Stephenson. She is 23, not 19.
 

 Dan Levin covers American youth for the National Desk. He was a foreign correspondent covering Canada from 2016 until 2018. From 2008 to 2015, Mr. Levin was based in Beijing, where he reported on human rights, politics and culture in China and Asia.
 
  
   
    @
   
   globaldan
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 
  Picture Prompts
 


 By
 
 
  
   Natalie Proulx
  
 

 Generation Z is known as the most diverse generation in American history. How would you describe your identity? What sets you apart from others in your generation?


 Tell us in the comments, then read the
 
  related article
 
 or click through the
 
  related interactive
 
 to see what other Gen Zers had to say.


 
  
   Note:
  
 
 
  Last year, The Learning Network ran a photography contest asking teenagers to
 
 
  
   show us their generation
  
 
 
  . We received nearly 2,200 responses and crowned
 
 
  
   36 winners
  
 
 
  . Be on the lookout for it next school year, so you can share with us how you define Gen Z.
 


 
  
   Find many more ways to use our Picture Prompt feature in
  
 
 
  
   
    this lesson plan
   
  
 
 
  
   .
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Dan Levin
  
 

 As a self-described political conservative, Reagan Larson might seem to be a natural fit for the Republican Party. The 19-year-old college student from South Dakota grew up in a Catholic household that objected to same-sex marriage, and she remains firmly opposed to abortion.


 But in many ways, that is where the ideological similarities end. Ms. Larson, a dual major in biology and Spanish at Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn., does not oppose the legalization of marriage equality. She views climate change as undeniable, believes “immigrants make our country richer,” and disagrees with her parents on the need for a border wall.


 Ms. Larson is part of Generation Z, one of the
 
  most ethnically diverse and progressive age groups
 
 in American history. People born after 1996 tend to espouse similar views to the age cohort just ahead of them, the Millennials, but they are far more open to social change than older generations have been, according to the findings of a
 
  new report by the Pew Research Center
 
 . The findings mark a shift that could substantially reshape the nation’s political and economic landscape.

 If you were born between 1995 and 2010, that makes you a part of Generation Z, which according to U.S. census data is the most diverse generation of all time. But what does that mean? And more importantly, what does that look like? That’s where you come in.

 According to the study — which was based on online surveys of 920 youths aged 13 to 17 and nearly 11,000 adults 18 or older — only 30 percent of Generation Z respondents said they approved of President Trump’s performance; more than half believed humans were fueling climate change; and 70 percent said they wanted the government to do more to solve the nation’s problems. Those views roughly mirror attitudes held by Millennials, and together, the two age groups may add up to a powerful voting bloc at odds with Republican orthodoxy, political scientists say.

 “This should be an alert to the Republican Party as they think about generational replacement,” said Elizabeth Bennion, a professor of political science at Indiana University South Bend.


 Each succeeding generation of Americans tends to be more progressive than those that came before, Ms. Bennion noted, a trend that potentially poses a long-term threat to the Republican Party’s power.


 “If there isn’t a will to change within the party,” she said, “it could become permanently in the minority moving forward.”


 Democrats of all ages tend to align fairly closely on major social and political issues, but the report highlights a sharp generational divide among Republicans. For example, more than half of the youngest Republicans surveyed said that racial and ethnic diversity was good for American society, a view shared by fewer than 40 percent of their Millennial counterparts, 34 percent of Generation Xers and just three in 10 baby boomers.

 Young Republicans are also more likely to approve of same-sex marriage and accept transgender people.


 Michael Schaefer, 18, a politically conservative college freshman from Youngstown, Ohio, said he was in the sixth grade when some classmates came out as gay, and had a number of transgender students as friends in high school.


 “For over half my life, I’ve been shown the other side of sexuality and gender,” he said. “I don’t care about their sex or gender, I just care about the individual.”


 More than one-third of Generation Z respondents said they knew someone who preferred to be addressed using gender-neutral pronouns, the Pew study found, compared with 12 percent of baby boomers.


 More than 68 million Americans belong to Generation Z, representing about 22 percent of the nation’s population, according to 2017 survey data from the United States Census Bureau — a share larger than the Millennials’ and second only to the baby boomers’.


 Contrary to conventional wisdom, Americans’ political and social views do not tend to drift to the right as they age, according to Kim Parker, who oversees research into social demographic trends at the Pew Research Center.


 “The differences we see across age groups have more to do with the unique historical circumstances in which they come of age,” she said, noting that demographers have not seen a generational pattern of growing more conservative or more Republican over time.

 Paulina Aceves, 18, a high school senior in Scottsdale, Ariz, embodies the complexities of her generation. The daughter of Mexican immigrants, she proudly identifies as a Christian and a Republican. But she does not support a border wall, nor does she believe the government should be less involved in American society.


 “The right solution is definitely for the government to take a more active role,” she said.


 The Republican Party has lost younger Americans like Travis Gaither, though, as it has moved farther to the right on issues like immigration, gun control and climate change.


 Mr. Gaither, who grew up in Tennessee, described his parents as “typical southern white Republicans” who belong to two country clubs and are active in the Chamber of Commerce.


 But Mr. Gaither, 20, was chairman of the High School Democrats of Tennessee during his senior year, a political transformation fueled by his liberal social views and cemented by his outrage over Mr. Trump’s hard-line policies.


 The Pew study found that two-thirds of Mr. Gaither’s generation believe, as he does, that black people are treated less fairly than whites in the United States. He said his feelings on the subject were shaped by an early brush with racism in high school, where a black girl he knew was menaced by a white football player who threatened to lynch her. And then his views were solidified last summer, he said, after a police officer in Nashville killed an unarmed black man.


 “I feel like I’ve moved toward the left, as the Republican Party has shifted toward the right,” he said.


 [For more stories about Generation Z and Millennials, please
 
  sign up here
 
 to have The Edit newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.]

 Advertisement

 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.


 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Giovanni Russonello
  
 

 Nina Simone’s “Mississippi Goddam,” Ritchie Valens’s “La Bamba” and the original 1968 Broadway cast album of “Hair” are among the 25 recordings that were placed on the Library of Congress’
 
  National Recording Registry
 
 on Wednesday as part of its 2018 class.


 Each year the library admits a new batch recordings into the registry, which functions as a kind of hall of fame of American recorded sound.


 
  The 2018 class
 
 also includes the album “Superfly” by Curtis Mayfield, a funk classic; Jay-Z’s hip-hop masterpiece “The Blueprint”; and the earliest known recordings of Yiddish songs, captured at the start of the 20th century. It features disco, Western choral music and Native American field recordings from the Dust Bowl era.


 Nonmusical recordings are admitted to the registry as well. Among this year’s lot are Robert F. Kennedy’s speech on April 4, 1968, the date of Martin Luther King Jr.’s murder, and the monologues of Ruth Draper, a famed actress in the early to mid-20th century.

 Each year’s selections are officially made by the librarian of Congress, Carla Hayden, though the National Recording Preservation Board supplies her with expert recommendations. Recordings must be at least 10 years old to qualify; they are chosen for being “culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant,” according to the National Recording Preservation Act of 2000.


 The new inductees bring the total number of recordings in the archive to 525.





 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 Have fun with your
 
 plant challenge
 
 , but the Carters eat meat.


 By
 
 
  Caity Weaver
 

 
  “Wait —” is a weekly newsletter in which Caity Weaver investigates an unanswered question in the news and pop culture.
 
 
  
   Sign up here to receive it in your inbox
  
 
 
  .
 


 How long is life? According to
 
  Official Rules
 
 set on behalf of Beyoncé and Jay-Z, life is a period of up to 30 years, beginning at 11:59:59 p.m. Eastern Time on April 22, 2019, for U.S. residents 18 or older.


 This definition comes from a
 
  sweepstakes
 
 sponsored by 22 Days Nutrition — a food company that Beyoncé and Jay-Z
 
  co-own
 
 with their personal trainer Marco Borges — in which participants can enter to win Beyoncé and Jay-Z concert tickets “for life” in exchange for tolerating a mild digital exhortation to adopt a plant-centric diet.


 The couple have publicly loved plants since December 2013, when Jay-Z outlined
 
  on his website
 
 a 22-day challenge “to go completely vegan, or as I prefer to call it, plant-based!!” (“Any professional vegans out there that have any great food spots please help out! Please ha,” he wrote.) Beyoncé
 
  Instagrammed
 
 it.

 Just over a year later,
 
  22 Days Nutrition
 
 announced a Beyoncé-backed
 
  vegan meal delivery service
 
 . This was followed by a prerecorded video of Beyoncé expressing her love for such meals on “Good Morning America” (which had promoted the video as an “
 
  amazing
 
 ” announcement). Last March, Beyoncé declared it “
 
  Vegan Time!!
 
 ”
 
 She and Jay-Z also co-authored the introduction to Mr. Borges’s new “plant-based lifestyle plan” book,
 
  “The Greenprint.”
 


 In 2015, Beyoncé
 
  wrote in an email
 
 to The New York Times: “First it’s important that you know I am not a vegan.”


 But the 22 Days Nutrition Meal Planner invites customers to “
 
  Join Beyoncé” for “Vegan Time,
 
 ” adding that “Beyoncé’s vegan diet is now available to YOU in her new delicious meal planner!”


 However, the
 
  Vegan 101
 
 section of the F.A.Q. page says that the company “prefers” the term “plant-based” to “vegan.”


 But the same section implies that vegan and plant-based diets are merely similar (“in that both diets avoid all animal products”), not identical.

 However, the specific differences are ambiguous.


 And, in
 
  a promotional video
 
 on the 22 Days website (with clips recycled from “Good Morning America”), Beyoncé declares “I still eat meat.”


 So: The diet is “plant-based,” which is vegan, but the meal delivery kits are “vegan,” but Beyoncé eats meat?


 Mr. Borges clarified in an email to me: The “plant-based” concept combines vegan avoidance of animal food products with supplementary avoidance of “highly processed foods.” (Twizzlers, for example, are vegan but not “plant-based.”) “The term vegan,” he added, “typically refers to people who avoid all animal products (meat, dairy, leather, fur, etc....) not just in their diet but also in their lives,” which is why 22 Days Nutrition avoids it. The meal planning page, he said, uses the term “vegan time” because it’s what Beyoncé said on Instagram.


 Are Beyoncé and Jay-Z vegan?


 No.


 Mr. Borges wrote that Beyoncé eats “a plant-based” — i.e. vegan — “breakfast daily” and consumes no meat on Mondays. Jay-Z eats “2 plant-based meals a day.”


 Turn-of-the-century archival footage shows that a teenage Beyoncé never envisioned a meatless world. In this 2000 interview, Beyoncé, outlining Destiny’s Child’s commitment to humility, states: “ … we’ve all promised ourselves that we will stay the same people, still like
 
 Popeyes
 
 chicken …”

 (One could argue that
 
  like
 
 does not necessarily imply
 
  eat
 
 . Which raises the question: Can a person
 
  like
 
 something he or she no longer encounters or observes, or only
 
  miss
 
 it and/or
 
  remember it fondly
 
 ? Is
 
  liking
 
 eternal, or merely ongoing?)

 We can also view the quotation through the lens of two of Buddhism’s noble truths: first, that life is suffering; second, that suffering is caused by desire. In one reading, Beyoncé’s suffering is caused by her desire for Popeyes chicken, and her inability to consume it due to her “plant-based diet.” In another, the suffering is caused by Beyoncé’s yearning for a “plant-based diet,” at odds with her unbreakable public vow to “still like Popeyes chicken” forever. Either way, the challenge is for Beyoncé to embrace suffering.)


 Scenarios by which a claim to a lifetime of Beyoncé and/or Jay-Z concert tickets can be forfeited include the death of Beyoncé and/or Jay-Z, and/or a winner’s engaging in activity that may bring “public disrepute, contempt, scandal, or ridicule” on the couple.


 In 2003, the caretaker of Ulysses S. Grant’s tomb implied that Beyoncé had brought that and more upon herself with her “Macy’s 4th of July Fireworks Spectacular” performance of her single “Baby Boy” at the memorial site, which he said “
 
  clearly crossed the line
 
 .” Fortunately, President Grant’s great-grandson disagreed. “The way the world is now, who cares?” Chapman Grant
 
  said in 2003
 
 . “It’s kind of nice that he gets even a little exposure.”


 “Who knows?” he added. “If the old guy were alive, he might have enjoyed it.”


 Speaking of the way the world is now — imagine how different it will be in 2049. Thirty years ago, the
 
  World Wide Web was invented
 
 . Thirty years before that, the first commercial photocopier was
 
  unveiled by Xerox
 
 — a company that would later hire Mathew Knowles to work in its Houston office, kick-starting a series of life events culminating in the creation of a 30-year ticket giveaway by Mr. Knowles’s elder daughter. Thirty years before that, Jay-Z was born.


 Just kidding: He was born in 1969, which means that at the prize’s conclusion he will be nearly 80. Beyoncé will be 67.

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Robert Ito
  
 

 What happens when the creative heart and soul of a studio retires? If it’s Hayao Miyazaki, the studio shutters with him.


 Not long after the legendary anime director, now 78, announced in 2013 that he was
 
  calling it quits
 
 (not his first time), his movie home, Studio Ghibli, halted production, ending its three-decade run with two Oscar-nominated films, “The Tale of the Princess Kaguya” and “When Marnie Was There.” The news left animation fans across the globe wondering if the makers of such beloved films as “Princess Mononoke” and “Spirited Away” would ever release another feature.


 The decision also raised other questions. Could Miyazaki — one of the world’s most ambitious and tireless directors — actually stay retired? And what would all those other creative minds at the studio do?


 For the Ghibli producer Yoshiaki Nishimura (“Princess Kaguya”) the answer was simple, at least in theory. He would create his own studio, pulling some of the top talent from Ghibli’s deep stable of feature film animators.

 The result is Studio Ponoc, which began life in 2015 in Kichijoji, a neighborhood in western Tokyo that’s home to
 
  the Ghibli Museum
 
 and a major center for Japanese animation. Despite a tough start — low budgets and a reported staff of “two to three” — Ponoc quickly expanded its work force to more than 400.


 The studio’s first feature, “
 
  Mary and the Witch’s Flower
 
 ,” was a hit, becoming one of Japan’s biggest box-office draws in 2017. Its second, “Modest Heroes,” was released in the United States on Thursday, Jan. 10.

 The transition looked pretty seamless until Miyazaki announced in 2017 that — surprise! — he was coming out of retirement to direct one more feature. Theories abounded: he wanted to create
 
  one more film for his grandson
 
 (the Ghibli producer Toshio Suzuki’s explanation). The master was lured back by the sweet promises of computer animation (as revealed in the 2016 documentary
 
  “Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki”
 
 ). He got tired of hearing up-and-coming animators dubbed the “new Miyazaki.”

 
  [
 
 
  
   All of Studio Ghibli’s films, ranked.
  
 
 
  ]
 


 “Honestly, I think Miyazaki isn’t Miyazaki unless he’s creating something,” Susan Napier, author of “Anime: From Akira to Princess Mononoke” and “Miyazakiworld: A Life in Art,” said. She added: “That’s where he is alive. He loves to create and imagine.”


 What looked like an ending became something else — the continuing tale of two studios, one rising and going unexpected places, one resurrected and returning to its focus on a revered filmmaker, all set against the backdrop of a Japanese animation industry thriving as never before. (The 2016
 
  box-office smash “Your Name”
 
 brought in $350 million to become the highest-grossing anime feature of all time.)


 If Ponoc’s first movie, “Mary and the Witch’s Flower,” had elements in common with a previous Ghibli classic, 1989’s “Kiki’s Delivery Service” (the young female witch protagonist, the black cat familiar, the broom-borne aerobatics), its second, “Modest Heroes,” is something else entirely. First, it’s not a feature at all, but a collection of shorts, a format that Ghibli would never release in commercial theaters. If you want to see, say, “Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess” or “Water Spider Monmon,” there’s only one theater in the world where you can see them.


 “Studio Ghibli does create short films for exhibition at the Ghibli Museum,” Nishimura said. “But these are all designed and planned by director Hayao Miyazaki. Other creators are not able to realize their plans.”


 With “Modest Heroes,” some of those same artists are making shorts meant to be seen outside of a museum setting, and directing their own works for the first time.

 In “Kanini &amp; Kanino,” the Academy Award-nominated director Hiromasa Yonebayashi (“The Secret World of Arrietty”) tells the story of two crab brothers who encounter menacing minnows and stampeding raccoons (the crab boys are very, very small) on a quest to save their dad. In “Life Ain’t Gonna Lose,” the animator and first-time director Yoshiyuki Momose (“Spirited Away”) finds high drama in a young boy’s life-threatening food allergy (fried eggs and squeeze-bottle mayo have never looked so fearsome).

 And in “Invisible,” Akihiko Yamashita (“Mary and the Witch’s Flower”) tells the story of a guy who becomes the unlikeliest of animated action heroes. “‘Invisible,’ with its motif of an invisible man, took on the considerable challenge of using hand-drawn animation to draw what is essentially undrawable,” Nishimura said.


 The Ponoc films are a major departure from two of Ghibli’s most recent works: “The Wind Rises” ended with the hero losing his young wife to tuberculosis; “The Tale of the Princess Kaguya” with the heroine leaving her earthborn parents to return to her home on the moon.


 “Many of the stories we created at Studio Ghibli as the studio was winding down were about separation,” Yonebayashi, the director, said. “But as we started production anew at our new studio, we turned away from stories of separation to stories about coexistence and encounters.”


 “Modest Heroes” was initially envisioned as four films, with the director and Ghibli co-founder Isao Takahata contributing a seven-minute segment based on a story from the Japanese epic “Heike Monogatari.” But that project was canceled when
 
  Takahata died in 2018 at
 
 82. Nishimura worked with the director during the last 10 years of his life, and said he was inspired to join Ghibli after seeing Takahata’s critically acclaimed “Grave of the Fireflies” as a young boy. “When Isao Takahata died, I cried like I have never cried before, and I felt like a part of me had been chipped off from the shock,” he said. “Modest Heroes” ends with a dedication to him.


 Studio Ponoc is in the midst of planning another short film and several feature-length ones; Studio Ghibli’s next film, “How Do You Live?,” based on a 1937 fantasy novel by Genzaburo Yoshino, is slated to open in 2020 or 2021. The current boom in Japanese animation has led to a shortage of capable animators, a major issue in an industry notorious for its often breakneck work schedules. “Some people I met who had worked with Miyazaki on ‘Princess Mononoke’ are still traumatized by it,” Napier said. “Miyazaki himself acknowledged it. He used the term ‘boro boro,’ which means ‘crumbling.’ They really rode people to the limit there.”

 Ponoc felt the pressure early on. “There was always a group of talented staff members on ‘standby’ from the beginning of production of director Hayao Miyazaki’s films at Studio Ghibli,” Yonebayashi said. “With ‘Mary,’ we had to start from scratch, with no one.”


 In addition to releasing both of Ponoc’s films in the United States, the distributor GKids also holds the North American theatrical rights to Studio Ghibli’s classics (rights acquired from Disney in 2011). If the stars align, GKids could release a Ponoc film and Miyazaki’s latest “last” film at the same time. “Of course we would love to get” the Miyazaki film, the GKids president, Dave Jesteadt, said. “That would be a huge honor. But separate from the business side, I’m just very excited to see it, just like any other fan.”


 And the prospect of Ghibli and Ponoc making films at the same time? “It was unexpected,” Jesteadt said. “Although maybe not so much in hindsight? There have been multiple times that Miyazaki has retired and unretired. But I think that while there’s great fellowship and a lot of shared animators and talent between those studios, it’s also great for both companies to have a little artistic competition. There’s always room for more great films.”







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  Gabe Cohn
 

 For a weekend dominated by M. Night Shyamalan, there weren’t many twists at the box office.


 Universal’s “Glass,” a superhero successor to the director Shyamalan’s “
 
  Unbreakable
 
 ” and
 
  “Split
 
 ” that stars Samuel L. Jackson, Bruce Willis and James McAvoy, sold an estimated $40.6 million in tickets during its first weekend in North American theaters, easily topping the chart at the end of a relatively quiet week.


 “Glass” completes a trilogy that started in 2000 with “Unbreakable,” a superhero thriller that introduced audiences to David Dunn (Willis), a football player-turned-security guard with superhuman abilities, and Elijah Price (Jackson), a comic-book theorist. While that film was successful at the box office and has since developed a cult following, its sales were modest compared to those of Shyamalan’s previous blockbuster, “The Sixth Sense,” which was the second-highest-grossing movie of 1999.


 With “Glass,” Universal was likely hoping to combine the cult status of “Unbreakable” with the box-office momentum created by “Split,” which came out in early 2017. The latter movie, which stars McAvoy as a kidnapper with multiple personalities, was a surprise hit, making about $138.3 million domestically during its time in theaters against a production budget of just $9 million, according to Box Office Mojo.


 “Split” made about $40 million during its opening weekend, so “Glass” is performing comparably — though it seems unlikely that the movie will wildly outpace “Split,” particularly given mixed reviews from critics. (“Glass” has a
 
  36 percent fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes
 
 .)

 In
 
  her review for The New York Times
 
 , Manohla Dargis called the movie “enjoyable,” but wrote that its “air of misterioso quiet and encroaching, consuming terror give way to manly growling, jaw-clenching and vein-popping, and everything falls to pieces in a poorly conceptualized and staged blowout.”


 STX’s “The Upside,” which
 
  was No. 1 in ticket sales last weekend
 
 despite the controversy surrounding Kevin Hart, one of its stars, came in second place with about $15.7 million, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data.


 Aside from “Glass,” the only other newcomer in the top five was Funimation’s “Dragon Ball Super: Broly,” a Japanese anime movie and the latest entry in the long-running “Dragon Ball” franchise, which made $8.7 million during its opening weekend to finish fourth.







 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 BEHIND THE BYLINE • MOTOKO RICH


 Interview by
 
 
  
   Lara Takenaga
  
 

 
  The Reader Center has started a new series of short interviews,
 
 
  
   Behind the Byline
  
 
 
  , to introduce you to Times journalists. Is there a reporter, photographer or editor whom you would like to get to know? Tell us in the comments section.
 


 Motoko Rich straddles two cultures as our Japanese-American Tokyo bureau chief. Landing the job almost three years ago meant returning to the country where her mother was born and where she had spent part of her childhood.


 A reporter for The Times since 2003, Motoko draws on her dual identity to bring nuance, empathy and “fresh eyes” to our coverage of Japan and the Koreas. Here, she discusses the challenges of interviewing Japanese people, her alternate dream job and how her two children help her see the world.


 
  What do you enjoy most about working in Japan? What is most challenging about it?
 


 Japan is a country where people keep their public and private selves completely distinct. They have words for both: “Tatemae” refers to behavior or words used in public; “hon’ne” is the word for your true feelings. I think what I enjoy most — and what is most challenging — about working in Japan can be expressed by those two words. I really do relish that feeling of getting to know a source well enough that I feel like they are letting me in on “hon’ne,” but there are many times when I wonder if all I am getting is “tatemae.”

 
  How has your background, as a half-Japanese woman who grew up in the United States and Japan, informed your work?
 


 I have
 
  written
 
 a little about this before. Because of my background, there is no question that my curiosity about Japanese society is personal as well as professional. I am driven to understand this place, and to help our readers understand it, in a nuanced, nonstereotyped way (no stories about anime-obsessed men marrying robots!).


 One of the advantages of my background as a journalist is that I have always been an outsider wherever I am. That tends to put me in the observer’s seat. Here in Japan, because of my American side, people don’t assume that I know much about Japan and are willing to explain things to me (sometimes to an excessive degree). It also gives me the privilege of being able to question basic assumptions about Japanese society, while the Japanese side of my identity helps me understand why people here react in a way that might seem strange to someone who has no familiarity with Japanese culture.


 
  If you had to choose another job, in journalism or not, what would it be?
 


 I definitely have a dream job now, but when I imagine another path it’s writing novels for children. I would love to make kids feel the way that Katherine Paterson, Ellen Raskin, Judy Blume, Madeleine L’Engle and Robert Newton Peck made me feel as an only child, when I found my best friends in their books. I read them obsessively and repeatedly.


 
  How do you spend your time when you’re off duty?
 


 When you’re a foreign correspondent, you’re technically never off duty! As often as possible, I try to make it home to family dinner (which my husband cooks, bless him), because I really want to hear what my kids have to say. Adolescents have a way of, shall we say, putting you in your place, but they can also deliver bolts of insight, and I want to be around as often as possible when those drop. Both of my kids play sports, so on weekends my husband and I can be found on the soccer sidelines or cheering someone on to a finish line.

 I love to bake (chocolate treats are a great antidote to stress), and in good weather we ride our bikes around Tokyo. If it were up to me, we would visit a lot more museums (and my husband and I occasionally do, if the kids are otherwise occupied — although the whole family enjoyed
 
  TeamLab Borderless
 
 ). On the rare weekend when the kids aren’t playing a game or running in a meet, we try to explore new hiking trails.


 We probably watch a little too much streaming television: The family likes episodes of the Japanese reality show “
 
  Terrace House
 
 ,” “The Good Place” and “Atlanta,” while my daughter and I are currently working our way through “The Handmaid’s Tale” and “This Is Us.” My son and I like to watch Trevor Noah on “The Daily Show.”


 And if I don’t have a novel going at all times, I fall into a nagging funk (suggestions welcome). I intersperse the fiction with books of history, as I still have so much to learn about Japan and the Koreas. I am ever in search of a volume about Japan as good as “Embracing Defeat” by John Dower.


 
  What’s your favorite Japanese expression?
 


 I like “yabai!” right now. You have to be aware of the context: It means “dangerous!” in some contexts and “awesome!” in others.

 Illustration by Rebecca Clarke


 A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the
 
  Reader Center
 
 does not count toward your monthly free article limit.


 Follow the
 
  @ReaderCenter
 
 on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.

 Lara Takenaga is a staff editor for the Reader Center.
 
  
   
    @
   
   LaraTakenaga
  
 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Supported by

 By
 
 
  
   Jaclyn Peiser
  
 

 “Do You Still Have a Job at BuzzFeed?”


 For about 220 BuzzFeed employees, the answer
 
  to the question posed by that quiz
 
 , which was posted on the BuzzFeed site on Monday, is no.


 Managers started
 
  laying off the site’s staff members
 
 last Friday, when 43 journalists at the company’s news division were cut. By Wednesday, all of the employees who would be put out of work, totaling more than 15 percent of its staff, had learned their fates, with the exception of certain workers in Australia and Britain, a spokesman for the company said.


 The “Do You Still Have a Job” quiz was contributed by Jason Sweeten, who worked in the company’s branded content division until a separate round of layoffs in June. “I felt helpless knowing that a bunch of my friends were going to lose their jobs, so I hoped that this could bring some levity to everything,” he said in an email. “Also, I assumed the quiz would be deleted immediately.”


 It’s still on the site’s Community section, which is filled with posts from contributors who have signed up for
 
  BuzzFeed Community Member
 
 accounts to publish unpaid material on the site.

 Since BuzzFeed’s chief executive, Jonah Peretti, and its managers started delivering the bad news, the company has faced criticism for dragging out the firing process, and employees who were let go have publicly criticized their severance packages. In addition, the suddenly jobless journalists have suffered the attacks of online trolls from corners of the internet darker and colder than BuzzFeed’s typically sunny climate.


 Complaints about severance pay started bubbling up in an internal Slack messaging channel last Friday called AJA, for “Ask Jonah Anything.” BuzzFeed workers — those still employed and the newly laid off — questioned why the company was not going to include pay for unused vacation and comp days as part of the exit packages (except for employees based in California, where such payment is required by law).


 A group of current and former employees who called themselves the BuzzFeed News Council published
 
  a letter on Medium
 
 concerning the issue of paid time off, known as P.T.O. It was signed by 600 current and former employees and addressed to Mr. Peretti; the company’s chief people officer, Lenke Taylor; and the BuzzFeed News editor in chief, Ben Smith.


 “For many people, paying out P.T.O. will be the difference between whether or not bills and student loans will be paid on time and how their families are supported,” the letter read. “It is unconscionable that BuzzFeed could justify doing so for some employees and not others in order to serve the company’s bottom line.”


 The hosts of BuzzFeed’s morning show “AM to DM,” which is produced in association with Twitter,
 
  addressed the issue
 
 on Monday. “I think it is embarrassing and absurd to work for a company that puts such an emphasis on this idea of all of us in it together, all of us as a family, and then refusing to pay out P.T.O. — paid time off — except where it’s law,” Isaac Fitzgerald, a co-host, said.

 The pressure worked. Mr. Peretti met with the council on Monday and sent an email to employees hours later, informing them that the company would include payments for vacation and comp days as part of the severance packages.


 The same day, The New Yorker published a
 
  letter to the editor
 
 by Mr. Peretti. It was his response to the magazine’s
 
  recent article
 
 on the state of the journalism business by the historian Jill Lepore. In the piece — whose tenor was summed up by an illustration of the Grim Reaper holding a newspaper — Ms. Lepore wrote that “speculation is that BuzzFeed is trying to dump” BuzzFeed News. In his letter, Mr. Peretti wrote: “This speculation is incorrect. Whatever challenges we face in this difficult environment for digital media, BuzzFeed News remains a key part of the future of BuzzFeed.”


 Adding to the turbulence were the public complaints of BuzzFeed’s quizmaster, Matthew Perpetua, another victim of the layoffs. On Monday, Mr. Perpetua
 
  published a blog post
 
 informing readers that a number of the site’s most popular quizzes were created by unpaid contributors. One so-called community user, whom he identified only as a college student in Michigan, was “the second-highest traffic driver worldwide” among BuzzFeed’s quizmakers, Mr. Perpetua wrote.


 This came as news to the quizmaker, Rachel McMahon, a 19-year-old student at Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Mich. After writing on Twitter that she felt “horrible” that BuzzFeed may have been emboldened to lay off staff partly because of the popularity of her unpaid work, she had a moment in the media spotlight when she was
 
  interviewed
 
 at length for New York magazine’s Intelligencer site.


 A BuzzFeed spokesman complimented Ms. McMahon’s work but disputed that she was the second most popular quizmaker in 2018, adding, “We’d be all too lucky to hire her when she graduates from college.”


 Over the last week, many of the laid-off BuzzFeeders found themselves the recipients of ugly messages and tweets sent by trolls and alt-right Twitter accounts. The messages included some variation of “learn to code,” images of nooses and insults. One message sent by email included death threats,
 
  NBC News
 
 reported.


 “I believe there is a special, dedicated section of Hell just for people with anime twitter avatars who tell laid-off journalists to ‘learn to code,’” Patrick George, the editor in chief of the automotive site Jalopnik, said on
 
  Twitter
 
 .

 
  Follow Jaclyn Peiser on Twitter:
  
   @jackiepeiser
  
  .
 






 Advertisement

 
 by
 
 
  Noel Murray
 


 
  Jan. 1, 2019
 

 
  
   Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are ou
  
  
   r picks
  
  
   for January, broken down by release date.
  
 


 
  Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are ou
 
 
  r picks
 
 
  for January, broken down by release date.
 

 
  
   
    [Not the month you’re looking for?
    
     Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.
    
    ]
   
  
 


 
  
   [Not the month you’re looking for?
   
    Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.
   
   ]
  
 

 
  
   ‘Comedians of the World’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 1
 


 
  ‘Comedians of the World’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 1

 
  Netflix’s programmers have been uncommonly ambitious when it comes to the service’s slate of stand-up specials, and Netflix’s line-up of international television over the past couple of years has been been impressive too. These initiatives dovetail in “Comedians of the World,” a new series shot at over a half-dozen comedy festivals, featuring 47 different comics of widely varying backgrounds. These sets — from the United States, Canada, Mexico, India, Germany, the Middle East, and elsewhere — are presented in their original languages, with subtitles. This ought to be a fascinating experiment, testing whether jokes translate as easily as drama and action.
  
  —
 


 Netflix’s programmers have been uncommonly ambitious when it comes to the service’s slate of stand-up specials, and Netflix’s line-up of international television over the past couple of years has been been impressive too. These initiatives dovetail in “Comedians of the World,” a new series shot at over a half-dozen comedy festivals, featuring 47 different comics of widely varying backgrounds. These sets — from the United States, Canada, Mexico, India, Germany, the Middle East, and elsewhere — are presented in their original languages, with subtitles. This ought to be a fascinating experiment, testing whether jokes translate as easily as drama and action.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘A Series of Unfortunate Events’ Season 3
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 1
 


 
  ‘A Series of Unfortunate Events’ Season 3
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 1

 
  The last four books of Lemony Snicket’s best-selling, blackly comic young adult fantasy series “A Series of Unfortunate Events” form the spine of the final seven episodes of Netflix’s TV adaptation, which brings the small-screen adventures of the orphaned Baudelaire siblings and the nefarious Count Olaf to a close. In addition to a heavily made-up Neil Patrick Harris as Olaf, past seasons have featured guest appearances by the likes of Alfre Woodard, Don Johnson, Catherine O’Hara, and Tony Hale. This year, Richard E. Grant and Max Greenfield join this freaky party, helping to wrap up one of the weirder sagas in contemporary children’s entertainment.
  
  —
 


 The last four books of Lemony Snicket’s best-selling, blackly comic young adult fantasy series “A Series of Unfortunate Events” form the spine of the final seven episodes of Netflix’s TV adaptation, which brings the small-screen adventures of the orphaned Baudelaire siblings and the nefarious Count Olaf to a close. In addition to a heavily made-up Neil Patrick Harris as Olaf, past seasons have featured guest appearances by the likes of Alfre Woodard, Don Johnson, Catherine O’Hara, and Tony Hale. This year, Richard E. Grant and Max Greenfield join this freaky party, helping to wrap up one of the weirder sagas in contemporary children’s entertainment.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Tidying Up with Marie Kondo’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 1
 


 
  ‘Tidying Up with Marie Kondo’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 1

 
  The lifestyle guru Marie Kondo — known for telling her followers to ask themselves whether their possessions “spark joy” — now takes her message of simplicity and pleasure from door to door, for a reality series in the mold of “Queer Eye” and “Hoarders.” With the help of a translator, the Japanese decluttering expert visits with American families feeling frustrated by all the stuff piling up, not just in their homes but in their lives. As is her wont, Kondo helps these ordinary, overwhelmed folks understand what’s really important.
  
  —
 


 The lifestyle guru Marie Kondo — known for telling her followers to ask themselves whether their possessions “spark joy” — now takes her message of simplicity and pleasure from door to door, for a reality series in the mold of “Queer Eye” and “Hoarders.” With the help of a translator, the Japanese decluttering expert visits with American families feeling frustrated by all the stuff piling up, not just in their homes but in their lives. As is her wont, Kondo helps these ordinary, overwhelmed folks understand what’s really important.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Titans’ Season 1
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 11
 


 
  ‘Titans’ Season 1
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 11

 
  A much darker spin on the DC superhero universe than “The Flash” and “Supergirl,” the TV series “Titans” calls back to the grim ’n’ gritty 1980s comic book era, and to the popular “Teen Titans” franchise. The 11-episode first season retells the origin story of the super-team, following Batman’s moody former sidekick Robin (played by Brenton Thwaites) as he meets other troubled young heroes. The story comes together perhaps a bit too slowly. Nevertheless, fans of the original “Titans” comics — or even the absurdist animated cartoons based on those comics — should enjoy seeing characters like Starfire, Raven and Beast Boy in this more serious incarnation.
  
  —
 


 A much darker spin on the DC superhero universe than “The Flash” and “Supergirl,” the TV series “Titans” calls back to the grim ’n’ gritty 1980s comic book era, and to the popular “Teen Titans” franchise. The 11-episode first season retells the origin story of the super-team, following Batman’s moody former sidekick Robin (played by Brenton Thwaites) as he meets other troubled young heroes. The story comes together perhaps a bit too slowly. Nevertheless, fans of the original “Titans” comics — or even the absurdist animated cartoons based on those comics — should enjoy seeing characters like Starfire, Raven and Beast Boy in this more serious incarnation.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Trigger Warning with Killer Mike’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 18
 


 
  ‘Trigger Warning with Killer Mike’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 18

 
  The activist rapper Killer Mike opens a window onto the way he sees the world with this screwball public affairs program, which mixes interviews with sketches and stunts. In the first six-episode season, Mike aims to challenge the audience’s perceptions by talking openly about controversial, racially charged topics, and showing how black experiences and black lives are often devalued and marginalized in mainstream culture.
  
  —
 


 The activist rapper Killer Mike opens a window onto the way he sees the world with this screwball public affairs program, which mixes interviews with sketches and stunts. In the first six-episode season, Mike aims to challenge the audience’s perceptions by talking openly about controversial, racially charged topics, and showing how black experiences and black lives are often devalued and marginalized in mainstream culture.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 24
 


 
  ‘Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 24

 
  Thirty years to the day after the serial murderer Ted Bundy was executed at Florida State Prison, Netflix presents a four-part documentary, based on 100 hours of death row interviews conducted in 1980. The series’ director Joe Berlinger also recently completed a feature-length drama about how Bundy’s girlfriend coped with the revelations that came out during his trial. That film will be debuting at Sundance in late January, a few days after this companion-piece that tells the killer’s story in his own words.
  
  —
 


 Thirty years to the day after the serial murderer Ted Bundy was executed at Florida State Prison, Netflix presents a four-part documentary, based on 100 hours of death row interviews conducted in 1980. The series’ director Joe Berlinger also recently completed a feature-length drama about how Bundy’s girlfriend coped with the revelations that came out during his trial. That film will be debuting at Sundance in late January, a few days after this companion-piece that tells the killer’s story in his own words.
 
 —

 
  
   [Want more Australia coverage and global insight?
   
    
     Sign up
    
   
   for our weekly Australia Letter.]
  
 


 
  [Want more Australia coverage and global insight?
  
   
    Sign up
   
  
  for our weekly Australia Letter.]
 

 
  
   ‘Black Earth Rising’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 25
 


 
  ‘Black Earth Rising’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 25

 
  Michaela Coel and John Goodman co-star in the international legal drama “Black Earth Rising,” a complex take on contemporary geo-politics from writer-director Hugo Black. Coel plays a Rwandan refugee who’s working as an investigator for a barrister played by Goodman, and is using the case of an imprisoned military leader as a way to look into her own past. Eschewing clear heroes and villains, Black illustrates how justice can be an elusive concept whenever one nation presumes to judge the values of another.
  
  —
 


 Michaela Coel and John Goodman co-star in the international legal drama “Black Earth Rising,” a complex take on contemporary geo-politics from writer-director Hugo Black. Coel plays a Rwandan refugee who’s working as an investigator for a barrister played by Goodman, and is using the case of an imprisoned military leader as a way to look into her own past. Eschewing clear heroes and villains, Black illustrates how justice can be an elusive concept whenever one nation presumes to judge the values of another.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt’ Season 4 Part 2
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 25
 


 
  ‘Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt’ Season 4 Part 2
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 25

 
  It’s been a little over seven months since the first half of the “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” final season debuted. Now, Netflix’s cheeriest, loopiest sitcom is coming to an end for good, with seven more episodes to wrap up the story of the eternally optimistic trauma victim Kimmy and her eccentric New York chums. In addition to the co-creators Tina Fey and Robert Carlock’s usual spoof of “plucky gal in the big city” storytelling conventions, the show’s last batch of episodes will include a double-length chapter that imagines what life would’ve been like for all these characters if Kimmy had never been kidnapped as a teenager.
  
  —
 


 It’s been a little over seven months since the first half of the “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” final season debuted. Now, Netflix’s cheeriest, loopiest sitcom is coming to an end for good, with seven more episodes to wrap up the story of the eternally optimistic trauma victim Kimmy and her eccentric New York chums. In addition to the co-creators Tina Fey and Robert Carlock’s usual spoof of “plucky gal in the big city” storytelling conventions, the show’s last batch of episodes will include a double-length chapter that imagines what life would’ve been like for all these characters if Kimmy had never been kidnapped as a teenager.
 
 —

 
  
   Also of Interest
  
 


 
  Also of Interest
 

 
  “Ten Percent” Season 3 (January 4), “When Heroes Fly” (January 10), “Sex Education” (January 11), “Friends from College” Season 2 (January 11), “Carmen Sandiego” (January 18), “Colony” Season 1 &amp; 2 (January 18), “Grace and Frankie” Season 5 (January 18), “Star Trek: Discovery” Season 2 (January 18), “Justice” (January 21), “Kingdom” (January 25) and “Club de Cuervos” (January 25)
 


 “Ten Percent” Season 3 (January 4), “When Heroes Fly” (January 10), “Sex Education” (January 11), “Friends from College” Season 2 (January 11), “Carmen Sandiego” (January 18), “Colony” Season 1 &amp; 2 (January 18), “Grace and Frankie” Season 5 (January 18), “Star Trek: Discovery” Season 2 (January 18), “Justice” (January 21), “Kingdom” (January 25) and “Club de Cuervos” (January 25)

 
  
   ‘Game Night’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 1
 


 
  ‘Game Night’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 1

 
  Although 2018 was a good year for blockbusters and Oscar-worthy dramas, it was relatively weak on traditional comedies. The major exception was “Game Night,” a cleverly plotted and often sidesplittingly funny mystery-farce, written by Mark Perez and co-directed by John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein. An all-star comic cast (including Jason Bateman, Rachel McAdams, Jesse Plemons, Sharon Horgan, and Lamorne Morris) play a gang of friends, family, and acquaintances, whose highly competitive gaming parties get disrupted when one of their group (played by Kyle Chandler) gets kidnapped. With its dark sense of humor and deadpan performances, “Game Night” is the kind of comedy fans will be watching over and over for years to come.
  
  —
 


 Although 2018 was a good year for blockbusters and Oscar-worthy dramas, it was relatively weak on traditional comedies. The major exception was “Game Night,” a cleverly plotted and often sidesplittingly funny mystery-farce, written by Mark Perez and co-directed by John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein. An all-star comic cast (including Jason Bateman, Rachel McAdams, Jesse Plemons, Sharon Horgan, and Lamorne Morris) play a gang of friends, family, and acquaintances, whose highly competitive gaming parties get disrupted when one of their group (played by Kyle Chandler) gets kidnapped. With its dark sense of humor and deadpan performances, “Game Night” is the kind of comedy fans will be watching over and over for years to come.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Godzilla: The Planet Eater’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 9
 


 
  ‘Godzilla: The Planet Eater’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 9

 
  The Godzilla anime movie trilogy comes to a close with “The Planet Eater,” and a story which pits the fire-breathing giant lizard against the three-headed monster Ghidorah. Like the previous two films, this one is set in a futuristic dystopia, riven by cults and superstition. Also like those earlier entries, “The Planet Eater” combines a traditional-looking anime style with more three-dimensional CGI beasties, meant to resemble the Kaijū that longtime Godzilla fans know and love.
  
  —
 


 The Godzilla anime movie trilogy comes to a close with “The Planet Eater,” and a story which pits the fire-breathing giant lizard against the three-headed monster Ghidorah. Like the previous two films, this one is set in a futuristic dystopia, riven by cults and superstition. Also like those earlier entries, “The Planet Eater” combines a traditional-looking anime style with more three-dimensional CGI beasties, meant to resemble the Kaijū that longtime Godzilla fans know and love.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘The Last Laugh’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 11
 


 
  ‘The Last Laugh’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 11

 
  The writer-director Greg Pritikin takes an unusual approach to the lives and times of stand-up comedians, with a dramedy that weighs how the art form itself has changed over the decades. Richard Dreyfuss plays a comic who gave up his shot at the big-time 50 years ago. Chevy Chase plays his former manager, who in the middle of a late-life crisis asks his old friend to hit the road one more time. Similar to the Netflix series “The Kominsky Method,” “The Last Laugh” is a movie about male relationships — as business partners, as friends, and as people who’ve shared common joys and woes.
  
  —
 


 The writer-director Greg Pritikin takes an unusual approach to the lives and times of stand-up comedians, with a dramedy that weighs how the art form itself has changed over the decades. Richard Dreyfuss plays a comic who gave up his shot at the big-time 50 years ago. Chevy Chase plays his former manager, who in the middle of a late-life crisis asks his old friend to hit the road one more time. Similar to the Netflix series “The Kominsky Method,” “The Last Laugh” is a movie about male relationships — as business partners, as friends, and as people who’ve shared common joys and woes.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Happened’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 18
 


 
  ‘Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Happened’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 18

 
  Remember the Fyre Festival? That expensive music and lifestyle event, so poorly planned and executed that it was cancelled after a few hours, leaving attendees stranded with inadequate food, water, sanitation, and security? Now the documentarian Chris Smith — best-known for the classic documentary “American Movie,” as well as “Jim &amp; Andy: The Great Beyond” — looks back at just what went wrong, aided by copious photos and footage taken by the people who showed up at Fyre looking to party, then ended up just hoping to get out safely.
  
  —
 


 Remember the Fyre Festival? That expensive music and lifestyle event, so poorly planned and executed that it was cancelled after a few hours, leaving attendees stranded with inadequate food, water, sanitation, and security? Now the documentarian Chris Smith — best-known for the classic documentary “American Movie,” as well as “Jim &amp; Andy: The Great Beyond” — looks back at just what went wrong, aided by copious photos and footage taken by the people who showed up at Fyre looking to party, then ended up just hoping to get out safely.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Senna’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 18
 


 
  ‘Senna’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 18

 
  Brazilian race car driver Ayrton Senna dominated the Formula One circuit in the late 1980s and early ‘90s, before dying in a crash at age 34. Asif Kapadia’s 2010 documentary “Senna” combines pulse-pounding excerpts from those old races with interviews and archival footage, covering how racing’s old-guard worked behind the scenes to put the kibosh on Senna’s aggressive racing style and flamboyant personality. The result is a fascinating inside look at a sport with arcane codes of behavior, which don’t always mesh well with that old saying “may the best man win.”
  
  —
 


 Brazilian race car driver Ayrton Senna dominated the Formula One circuit in the late 1980s and early ‘90s, before dying in a crash at age 34. Asif Kapadia’s 2010 documentary “Senna” combines pulse-pounding excerpts from those old races with interviews and archival footage, covering how racing’s old-guard worked behind the scenes to put the kibosh on Senna’s aggressive racing style and flamboyant personality. The result is a fascinating inside look at a sport with arcane codes of behavior, which don’t always mesh well with that old saying “may the best man win.”
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Scott Pilgrim vs. the World’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 18
 


 
  ‘Scott Pilgrim vs. the World’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 18

 
  Bursting with imagination and personality, director Edgar Wright’s adaptation of the cartoonist Bryan Lee O’Malley’s “Scott Pilgrim” graphic novel series stars Michael Cera as a self-centered, not-too-bright Canadian hipster kid, who finds himself facing down all the super-powered ex-boyfriends of the woman he loves (played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Part superhero movie, part slacker romance, “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” is a winning combo of quirky humor and eye-popping special effects.
  
  —
 


 Bursting with imagination and personality, director Edgar Wright’s adaptation of the cartoonist Bryan Lee O’Malley’s “Scott Pilgrim” graphic novel series stars Michael Cera as a self-centered, not-too-bright Canadian hipster kid, who finds himself facing down all the super-powered ex-boyfriends of the woman he loves (played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Part superhero movie, part slacker romance, “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” is a winning combo of quirky humor and eye-popping special effects.
 
 —

 
  
   ‘Polar’
   
  
  
   Starts streaming:
  
  January 21
 


 
  ‘Polar’
  
 
 
  Starts streaming:
 
 January 21

 
  Mads Mikkelsen plays a retired assassin drawn back into the business in “Polar,” a new shoot-‘em-up based on a graphic novel series created by the Spanish cartoonist Victor Santos. The comics have been acclaimed for their visual style, and for the way Santos tries deliver as much action and story as possible without dialogue. Director Jonas Åkerlund — renowned for music videos like Madonna’s “Ray of Light” and Beyoncé’s “Hold Up” — should bring plenty of panache to this thriller, with the help of actress Vanessa Hudgens and a score from the EDM favorite Deadmau5.
  
  —
 


 Mads Mikkelsen plays a retired assassin drawn back into the business in “Polar,” a new shoot-‘em-up based on a graphic novel series created by the Spanish cartoonist Victor Santos. The comics have been acclaimed for their visual style, and for the way Santos tries deliver as much action and story as possible without dialogue. Director Jonas Åkerlund — renowned for music videos like Madonna’s “Ray of Light” and Beyoncé’s “Hold Up” — should bring plenty of panache to this thriller, with the help of actress Vanessa Hudgens and a score from the EDM favorite Deadmau5.
 
 —

 
  
   Also of Interest
  
 


 
  Also of Interest
 

 
  “Cast Away” (January 1), “Lionheart” (January 4), “Solo” (January 11), “Ghostbusters” (January 12), “Revenger” (January 15), “Babe” (January 18), “IO” (January 18), “Soni” (January 18), “Animas” (January 25), “The Lincoln Lawyer” (January 26) and “The Boss Baby” (January 27)
 

 “Cast Away” (January 1), “Lionheart” (January 4), “Solo” (January 11), “Ghostbusters” (January 12), “Revenger” (January 15), “Babe” (January 18), “IO” (January 18), “Soni” (January 18), “Animas” (January 25), “The Lincoln Lawyer” (January 26) and “The Boss Baby” (January 27)

 
  Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly
  
   Australia Letter
  
  , start your day with your local
  
   Morning Briefing
  
  and join us in our
  
   Facebook group
  
  .
 

 
 Read our
 
 
  FAQs
 
 
 or
 
 
  contact us
 
 
 to let us know how we’re doing.
 
